
[1] Read Details

The Leica R8 & R9 are manual focus 35 mm single-lens reflex cameras produced
by the German firm Leica as the final models of their R series. Development
of
the R8 began in 1990:[1] the camera was introduced at the 1996 photokina
trade
show,[2] and was succeeded by the similar Leica R9 in 2002.[2]

Both can be fitted with the Digital Modul R (DMR) digital back (discontinued
in 2007 [1]) and used as a digital camera making them the only 35 mm SLRs to
take a user-installable digital back. The R8 was the first R-series camera to
have no association with Minolta, being solely a Leica design and showing a
clear stylistic change compared to prior bodies.

===== Contents =====

===== Design =====

Industrial designer Manfred Meinzer was chiefly responsible for the R8
design,[3] along with a team of designers largely new to Leica or drawn from
outside. The R8 was intended as a clean break from the previous generation of
Leica R cameras, which had been developed in cooperation with Minolta. A key
design goal was to evoke the Leica M and its smooth top plate;[1] instead of
a
raised pentaprism as in previous R series cameras, the R8 has sloped
"shoulders" that blend almost seamlessly into the pentaprism housing. The
shape is strongly asymmetrical, especially in plan view, with a bulged right
handgrip and smaller, tapered left-hand side.

Another goal was to improve the ergonomics and to place controls so they
could be easily reached and operated without removing the eye from the
viewfinder.[1] Although the R8 is capable of fully automated exposure and
(with the addition of the integrally-styled motor drive or winder) automated
film transport, the location of the shutter speed dial lends itself to manual
exposure control, as many Leica customers preferred this. In this it differs
strongly from other contemporary SLRs, which were designed primarily for
automatic operation. The top control wheels are sunk into the top plate, with
knurled edges protruding at the front where they can easily be operated by
the
photographer's fingertips.

The R8 is substantially larger and heavier than the R4-R7 series cameras,
being about a third heavier at 890g than the R7. This is partly explained by
being built to take and balance the heavier zoom lenses in the Leica R lens
range. The styling of the R8 proved controversial, some photographers
consider
it ugly and dubbed it the "Hunchback of Solms"[4] (Solms is the German town
where Leica was headquartered; the company moved back to its original home
town of Wetzlar in 2014). The size and bulk of the camera attracted much
criticism although the R8/9 fitted with motor winder were almost exactly the
same size and weight as the preceding R7 with motor winder.

===== Technical information =====

The R8 was without doubt the most complex camera Leica had ever constructed
containing extensive electronics including a microprocessor, despite its
manual operation bias, and in addition was built in a very modular fashion to
integrate seamlessly with motor drive units and new backs such as the Digital
Modul R.

The shutter used was a Copal vertically running metal-leaf unit[1] capable of
speeds between 1/8000 and 32 seconds steplessly in automatic modes, or to 16
seconds in half-stop steps in manual mode, as well as Bulb. The flash X-sync
speed is 1/250 sec.

The shutter release is in the center of the shutter-speed dial and is
threaded for a cable release. The optional Motor-Drive gives additional front
and vertical-grip releases.

The highly sophisticated metering system allows free choice of metering mode
and exposure mode. By contrast, the earlier R4-R7 series lacked multi pattern
metering and offered only pre-set combinations of metering and exposure.

Three metering modes are offered:

and five exposure modes:

Mounted on the secondary mirror itself was a single cell for selective
measurement and in the camera base was a five segment cell for integrated
measurement with multi-pattern measurement. Using both provided six
measurement areas. Switching of both metering mode and exposure mode was
electronic. Flash pre-exposure measurement was provided allowing the camera's
meter to measure manually controlled flash such as studio flash. Pre-flash
measurement was always selective and in addition to automatic TTL flash
measurement during exposure with suitable automatic flash units which was
always full field using two small light cells either side of the main
multi-pattern cell. Exposure compensation was available in all exposure
modes.

Program mode can be biased towards longer or shorter shutter speeds by using
the shutter speed dial. Also in program mode automatic flash exposure was
fully controlled by the camera: off in daylight conditions, fill in flash
with
low light, full flash when dark. Normal flash synchronisation speed is 1/250s
and with suitable flash units can be up to the camera's highest speed of
1/8000s.

The viewfinder display was digital LED visible in any lighting.

The same bayonet and stepped cam of earlier R cameras was used, but
additional electrical contacts called "ROM Contacts" were added to convey
lens
focal length setting. Any lens fitted with the R stepped cam may be used, but
very early lenses fitted only with sloped cams (1 or 2 cam lenses) may damage
the ROM contacts and should first be fitted with the stepped cam.

Lens / camera combinations are as follows:

Leica 1 cam, 2 cam, 3 cam, & R stepped cam lenses may be fitted with ROM
contacts but as this entails removal of the original sloped cams they would
then be incompatible with the original Leicaflex cameras. This was the first
break in on-going compatibility of Leica reflex lenses.

===== R9 =====

The R9 was an evolutionary step from the R8 and appears superficially very
similar; enough so that some have opined that it should have been simply a
Mark II of the R8, or in Leica nomenclature, an "R8.2".[2]

The silver top-plate color available on the R8 was replaced by an
'Anthracite' color on the R9; black remained available. Another external
change was the addition of an LCD frame counter on the top plate between the
wind lever and the shutter-speed dial. The mode selector dial gained a lock,
after many R8 user complaints that it was too easily moved from the desired
setting when handling the camera. The rear LCD display gained a backlight so
it could be viewed in dim lighting.

The mass of the R9 was reduced by 100g (to 790g) from the R8, achieved by
switching to a magnesium casting for the top plate (formerly zinc alloy) and
substituting aluminum for steel at the bottom plate's frame.

Electronic changes included the ability to tune the sensitivity of matrix
metering in steps of 0.1 EV independently of the other metering modes, and
several improvements to the flash support. Metz's HSS (High Speed Sync) flash
mode was now supported, allowing fill flash at shutter speeds greater than
the
X-sync speed by the use of many repeated small flashes of the electronic
flashgun. This mode could be used from 1/360 to the camera's shortest 1/8000
of a second shutter speed. Also improved was the use of fill-flash at slower
shutter speeds and wider apertures, by enabling lower-power illumination
modes
on modern Metz equipment. The manual flash exposure compensation ability in
Program mode was improved, and AE lock was now possible in all automated
modes.

===== Accessories =====

Leica sell a number of dedicated accessories for the R8 and R9. In addition
to the Digital Modul R, these comprise the following:[5]

===== End of the R series =====

On Wednesday, 4 March 2009, Leica announced via the L-Newsletter that no
further stock was available and production of the R series cameras and
accessories had ended.[3]

===== Specifications =====

===== References =====

^ a b c d Erwin Puts. "Leica R8 Design". Photosite. Archived from the
original on 2001-04-15. ^ a b "Leica Product Timeline". Leica Camera AG. ^
Manfred Meinzer Industrial Design. "MM-designed products from LEICA Camera
AG". Archived from the original on 2013-06-13. Retrieved 2006-08-14. ^ Mike
Johnston. "Has Leica Lost It?". The Sunday Morning Photographer. Archived
from
the original on 2013-01-23. Retrieved 2006-08-14. ^ Leica Camera AG. "R
System
Accessories". ^ Leica Camera AG. "Leica Motor-Winder R8/R9". ^ Leica Camera
AG. "Leica Motor-Drive R8/R9". ^ Leica Camera AG. "Leica R8 User Manual".

===== External links =====

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Leica_R8-R9&oldid=1094190742"

Last edited on 21 June 2022, at 07:19

Languages Deutsch فارسی Français Русский



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leica_R8-R9#R9

LICENSE: Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0)

=========================================


$
[B:t] Leica R8-R9 - Wikipedia
