
[1] Read Details

Last Updated: 6 Minutes Ago

We're into the final hour of the most famous endurance race, the 24 Hours of
Le Mans.

Ferrari are on course to win.

Follow updates to the 24 Hours of Le Mans here...

Reporting By: Chad Smith

14:44

Toyota Final Pit

The No. 8 Toyota has made their final pit stop with 17 minutes remaining.
They will need a major miracle at this point to have any shot at Ferrari for
the overall win.

14:42

Glickenhaus Crash

The No. 709 Glickenhaus Racing Hypercar has gone through the chicane and
head-on into the tire barrier.

14:39

Final Ferrari Pit Stop

The No. 51 Ferrari Hypercar has made their final pit stop with 23 minutes
remaining. There was a brief scare as it took them some time to release, but
they are back on track with a 54 second lead over the No. 8 Toyota.

14:30

Penske Slowing

Final pit stops continue as the final 30 minutes of the race tick down. The
No. 5 Penske Porsche is crawling slowly back to pit lane after an on-track
issue.

14:10

LM P2 Race

Only 50 minutes remain in the race!

The closest battle for the lead between the three classes is in LM P2 where
the No. 34 Inter Europol Competition Oreca holds a 12 second edge over the
No.
41 Team WRT entry.

14:00

Class Leaders (23 Hours)

Class Leaders after 23 Hours: Hypercar - No. 51 Ferrari AF Corse (overall
leader) LM P2 - No. 34 Inter Europol Competition LM GTE - No. 33 Corvette
Racing C8.R No. 24 Hendrick Motorsports NASCAR Chevrolet running 39th overall

13:58

Ferrari Driver Swap

Alessandro Pier Guidi has jumped into the Ferrari for the final one-hour
stint in the race. The lead is just under two minutes over the No. 8 Toyota.

13:56

Toyota Crash Replay

Drama! The #8 in second place, edging up behind the Ferrari #51, has hit the
barrier at Arnage! #LeMansCentenary | @TGR_WEC pic.twitter.com/Fib3wv9HP6 —
24
Hours of Le Mans (@24hoursoflemans) June 11, 2023

Drama! The #8 in second place, edging up behind the Ferrari #51, has hit the
barrier at Arnage! #LeMansCentenary | @TGR_WEC pic.twitter.com/Fib3wv9HP6

13:41

Hypercar Podium

Ferrari holds a 3-minute, 24 second lead over Toyota with 80 minutes
remaining. Both Cadillac Racing cars follow but only the No. 2 car, driven by
Richard Westbrook, is on the same lap as the Ferrari and Toyota.

13:18

Toyota Hypercar Crash

With less than two hours remaining, the No. 8 Toyota Hypercar has crashed
while battling for the overall lead!

Ryo Hirakawa locked the rear brakes which sent the car spinning, making
contact with the barrier. A major setback for the Toyota Gazoo Racing team,
as
the car comes to pit lane for repairs.

13:11

Garage 56 Update

After spending time in the garage to make repairs to the transmission, the
Hendrick Motorsports Garage 56 NASCAR is back out on track with Mike
Rockenfeller behind the wheel, running in 39th overall.

13:02

Final Two Hours

The race continues to shape up to be an incredible finish. After 310 laps
around the eight-mile circuit, the top two cars are separated by just 9
seconds! There have been 20 retirements in the race so far.

13:00

Class Leaders (22 Hours)

Class Leaders after 22 Hours: Hypercar - No. 51 Ferrari AF Corse (overall
leader) LM P2 - No. 34 Inter Europol Competition LM GTE - No. 33 Corvette
Racing C8.R No. 24 Hendrick Motorsports NASCAR Chevrolet running 39th overall

12:27

Leaders Pit

The top two in Hypercars have pitted. The No. 8 Toyota made their stop first,
and the No. 51 Ferrari came in one lap later and made a driver change.
Antonio
Giovinazzi is back behind the wheel with an 18 second lead.

12:00

Class Leaders (21 Hours)

Class Leaders after 21 Hours: Hypercar - No. 51 Ferrari AF Corse (overall
leader) LM P2 - No. 34 Inter Europol Competition LM GTE - No. 33 Corvette
Racing C8.R No. 24 Hendrick Motorsports NASCAR Chevrolet running 40th overall

11:50

Cadillac Challenge?

While the battle for the overall win between Toyota and Ferrari rages on,
Cadillac Racing remains hopeful to get back in the fight. The No. 3 Cadillac
may be two laps down in 4th but the No. 2 machine is just about one minute
behind the top two in 3rd place. Just over three hours remaining!

11:37

A close shave

Brendon Hartley in the #8 Toyota almost loses the rear at the Dunlop Chicane.
No damage is done...

11:36

Gap to the front is tight

Just 5.5s separate the race-leading Ferrari and the chasing Totoya.

11:23

Ferrari continue to lead 24h of Le Mans

Class leaders ⏱️ Hour 20 #HYPERCAR @FerrariHypercar #51 #LMP2 INTER EUROPOL
COMPETITION #34 #LMGTEAM @IronDames_ #85 #LeMansCentenary
pic.twitter.com/0m7XBQynf9 — 24 Hours of Le Mans (@24hoursoflemans) June 11,
2023

Class leaders ⏱️ Hour 20 #HYPERCAR @FerrariHypercar #51 #LMP2 INTER EUROPOL
COMPETITION #34 #LMGTEAM @IronDames_ #85 #LeMansCentenary
pic.twitter.com/0m7XBQynf9

10:41

Ten-min pitstop for Button

The Garage 56 driver, and ex F1 world champion, was in the pitstops for
approximately 10 minutes. Unclear what the problem was.

10:40

Ferrari lead extended

Pier Guidi's #51 Ferrari pitted without any need for a power cycle, as they
did at their previous stop, so they've extended their advantage at the front
over the chasing Toyota.

10:39

Hollywood star crashes!

Michael Fassbender slams his #911 Porsche into the wall! He is able to
somehow drag it back to the pits but that was a big one.

10:05

Jenson Button in action now

The 2009 F1 champion is currently driving the Garage 56 project.

He's 36th.

10:04

Class leaders (19 hours)

Hypercar

1. #51 Ferrari 2. #8 Toyota 3. #2 Cadillac 4. #3 Cadillac 5. #93 Peugeot

LMP2

1. #32 Inter Europol Competition 2. #41 WRT 3. #30 Duqueine Team 4. #65 Panis
Racing 5. #IDEC Sport

09:58

Lead change! @FerrariHypercar now in P Pier Guidi just gets ahead of Buemi's
#8 Toyota. What a fight! #LeMansCentenary pic.twitter.com/8Wqlec94Ys — 24
Hours of Le Mans (@24hoursoflemans) June 11, 2023

Lead change! @FerrariHypercar now in P Pier Guidi just gets ahead of Buemi's
#8 Toyota. What a fight! #LeMansCentenary pic.twitter.com/8Wqlec94Ys



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.crash.net/le-mans/live/24-hours-le-mans-2023-live-updates

LICENSE: ©1999-2023 Crash Media Group

=========================================


$
[B:t] Final 60 minutes of the 24 Hours of Le Mans 2023: LIVE UPDATES!
