
[1] Read Details

11/06/2023

00:36

Back 8-hour round-up: Peugeot retake lead as Ferrari slip with midnight
approaching

It’s still anyone’s race in the battle to take home the 24 Hours of Le Mans
centenary trophy. Five manufacturers have swapped lead since the race began
at
4 pm local time. With differing tyre strategies, the main Hypercar
challengers
have moved up and down the rankings. Ferrari AF Corse, however, has appeared
most consistently at the top of the standings with the #51 Ferrari 499P first
to complete 100 laps. However, Alessandro Pier Guidi was caught out at the
Daytona Chicane shortly before midnight.

After one hour 25 minutes, the Safety Car – brought out while repairs were
made to the barriers damaged in the spell of rain – returned to base. In the
first green lap after racing resumed, Yifei Ye went on the attack in the #38
Hertz Team JOTA Porsche 963, passing four cars and then wrestling the lead
from Gustavo Menezes in the #94 Peugeot 9X8. Sadly for the Chinese driver,
barely minutes later, he lost control coming out of the Porsche Curves,
ramming his gold Porsche into the tyre barriers and leaving debris strewn all
over the track. The incident resulted in a Full Course Yellow and left the
Ferrari 499Ps in the top two spots.

Miraculously, given the battered state of the Porsche on entering the garage,
the mechanics spent just 20 minutes getting back into shape and out on to the
track. Meanwhile, the #5 Porsche 963 incurred a drive-through penalty for an
infringement during the safety car period, and the #6 sister car with Kévin
Estre at the wheel suffered a puncture. Not a happy hour for the German
manufacturer.

The #72 TF Sport LMGTE Am challenger crashed heavily into the bank of tyres
in the Porsche Curves with Arnold Robin at the wheel. The Aston Martin
Vantage
almost wipes out the #51 Ferrari 499P in the process. A retirement was
unfortunately inevitable.

Shortly after 10 pm, rain began to fall again in the Tertre Rouge section as
day turned into night. The #28 JOTA Oreca 07, which had slipped from the
class
lead to fifth since the FCY, was first to fall foul of the wet weather as the
cars headed to the pits to change to grooved tyres. As the heavens opened,
LMGTE Am class leader, the #66 JMW Motorsport Ferrari 488 GTE EVO, slid off
into the gravel, propelling the Iron Dames back to the top of the standings.
The #923 Racing Team Turkey Oreca 07 then skidded off and crashed into a
stranded Prema Racing car.

The Cadillac V-Series Rs were also having trouble in the wet conditions.
Shortly after Renger van der Zande had cut a corner across the gravel,
Richard
Westbrook spun in the #2 sister car but without any significant consequences.

"It’s a very tough situation but we just have to manage."

Alex Lynn, driver, #2 Cadillac V-Series R, Cadillac Racing

As the rain eased off, lap times of the leaders fell from around 4:20 during
the heaviest rainfall to under 4:00.

Former leader, the #75 Porsche 963 appeared to be in difficulty at Tertre
Rouge while on its 85th lap. Frenchman Mathieu Jaminet pulled up on the
inside
of the track with what proved to be a fuel pressure issue. The Porsche Penske
Motorsport car subsequently became the first retiree among the Hypercar
field.

Surprisingly, given the number of incidents, just two LMP2 contenders have so
far been forced to retire. The Nielsen Racing and Tower Motorsports Oreca 07s
(#14 and #13 respectively) suffered heavy crashes in the early stages and
were
the day’s first two casualties. Inter Europol Competition’s #34 Oreca 07 took
control of the LMP2 class after a series of collisions that pushed the #28
JOTA and the #9 Prema Racing machines down the standings. With Robert Kubica
at the wheel of the Team WRT #41 Oreca, the Belgian outfit is in hot pursuit
of its Polish counterparts.

Twenty-seven-year-old Italian Matteo Cairoli in the Project 1-AO Porsche 911
RSR-19 (#56) negotiated the tricky conditions well to move smoothly past the
Iron Dames bright pink Porsche to take the LMGTE Am lead. This class has been
hardest hit by retirements so far with six line-ups seeing their challenge
ended prematurely.

As the clock ticked towards midnight, Alessandro Pier Guidi put the leading
#51 Ferrari 499P into the gravel at the Daytona Chicane, leaving the #94
Porsche 9X8 to regain the lead.

PHOTO 1/4

LMP2 leader Inter Europol Competition's #34 Oreca 07

Arnaud CORNILLEAU (ACO)

Whenever there’s a proper downpour after dark at Le Mans, fans who know their
Le Mans history spare a thought for Henri Pescarolo. In 1968, his Matra’s
windscreen wipers stopped working amid torrential nighttime rain, yet he
soldiered on heroically, maintaining his position despite the circumstances.
When day broke he still lay second behind Lucien Bianchi and Pedro Rodríguez,
who went on to win. “When I caught up with the car in front, I could vaguely
make out the red of the rear lights in the spray, but I had no idea whether
it
was going straight on, right or left,” said the four-time Le Mans winner.

24 Heures du Mans PEUGEOT TOTALENERGIES



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.24h-lemans.com/en/news/peugeot-retake-lead-as-ferrari-slip-with-midnight-approaching-57660

LICENSE: © ACO

=========================================


$
[B:t] 8-hour round-up: Peugeot retake lead as Ferrari slip with midnight approaching | 24h-lemans.com
