
[1] Read Details

===== Share this story =====

The Miami Heat and Denver Nuggets will meet for Game 1 of the 2023 NBA Finals
Thursday, with tipoff set for 8:30 p.m. ET on ABC. The Heat enter this
matchup
as a No. 8 seed, while the Nuggets come in as a No. 1 seed. This is Denver’s
first Finals appearance, while Miami is making history as the first team to
reach the Finals from the play-in tournament.

The Nuggets are 8.5-point favorites at DraftKings Sportsbook, while the total
comes in at 219. Denver is -360 on the moneyline while Miami is +295.

Here we’ll have the latest updates from the game, relevant odds information
and video highlights.

===== Heat vs. Nuggets Game 1 live updates =====

End of Game 1 - The Nuggets win Game 1convincingly behind a triple-double
from Nikola Jokic, defeating the Heat 104-93. Nuggets -8.5 hits, as does the
under on 219. If you had Nuggets moneyline, you’re a winner as well. The
Nuggets were able to maintain their offensive efficiency for four quarters,
while the Heat couldn’t get to the free-throw line or hit enough threes. It’s
a 1-0 lead for Denver heading into Game 2 Sunday.

Joker triple-double 27 PTS, 14 AST, 10 REB late in Q4 on ABC.
pic.twitter.com/tXrd0tj5K4 — NBA (@NBA) June 2, 2023

Joker triple-double 27 PTS, 14 AST, 10 REB late in Q4 on ABC.
pic.twitter.com/tXrd0tj5K4

Fourth quarter - The Heat got the deficit to single digits at one point but
the Nuggets once again responded to create some separation late in Game 1.
Miami simply doesn’t have enough time or consistency right now to pull this
one off. It looks like Denver will take Game 1 and maintain its perfect home
record in the playoffs.

Fourth quarter - The Nuggets have responded slightly to Miami’s run, as they
have a double-digit lead once again. Jokic is still one rebound away from a
triple-double but he’s now up to 19 points for the game. The Heat have still
not played. Butler in this quarter, and we’ll see if they opt to go to him
with this game slowly starting to slip out of reach.

Jokic finds Green for his 13th assist Nuggets lead in the 4Q on ABC!
pic.twitter.com/wefjjiiaBK — NBA (@NBA) June 2, 2023

Jokic finds Green for his 13th assist Nuggets lead in the 4Q on ABC!
pic.twitter.com/wefjjiiaBK

Fourth quarter - The Heat have cut into the deficit with an 8-0 run to start
the fourth quarter, which was headlined by two made triples. If Miami’s
three-point shooting can show positive regression, there’s a chance the Heat
can keep eating into this deficit. They trail Denver 84-71 with just over 10
minutes left in Game 1.

Lowry pull-up three 11-0 Miami run to cut the lead to 13... Q4 of Game 1 LIVE
on ABC!#NBAFinals presented by @YouTubeTV pic.twitter.com/KjIQTbpJLs — NBA
(@NBA) June 2, 2023

Lowry pull-up three 11-0 Miami run to cut the lead to 13... Q4 of Game 1 LIVE
on ABC!#NBAFinals presented by @YouTubeTV pic.twitter.com/KjIQTbpJLs

End of the third quarter - This has been all Denver in Game 1, with the
Nuggets holding a massive 21-point lead. It feels larger given Miami’s
inability to hit any sort of shot. Jokic is one rebound away from a
triple-double, while Murray, Porter Jr. and Gordon have combined for 52
points. Nuggets -8.5 is looking like a lock. The under on 219 is looking
solid
as well, especially if the Nuggets ease off with a big lead.

Third quarter - The Heat continue to struggle offensively, and Denver has now
opened up a 19-point lead as the third quarter winds down. Jokic, Murray and
Porter Jr. are all locked in, while the Heat can’t get much out of anyone
other than Adebayo. Unless Miami is able to clean some things up defensively,
this one is going to be a slow bleed the rest of the way.

Third quarter - It’s been all Jokic and the Nuggets in the third quarter
after a quick spurt from Miami. Denver is back up by 16 points, with Jokic up
to 14 points and 11 assists. Murray has 24 points, five rebounds and five
assists. On the flip side, Strus hasn’t made a single triple in 10 attempts.
The Heat have shot 5-21 from behind the arc. That’s not going to win you many
games, and it certainly isn’t going to win you games against this Nuggets
team.

Third quarter - The Heat had a quick 7-0 run going to start the second half
but Murray made a key play on both sides of the ball to quickly put the
Nuggets back up by double digits. The Heat have been unable to string
together
good offensive possessions consistently, and Butler has struggled to get
going.

Halftime - Here are some more halftime stats for Game 1. The Nuggets posted
59.5/45.5/100 shooting splits in the first half, while the Heat posted
37.5/23.5/100 splits. Denver won on the glass and had more assists, and it
makes sense why the Nuggets have a 17-point lead. We’ll see if Miami can make
some dents into this deficit over the second half or if Denver keeps building
on this advantage.

Halftime - It’s been a dominant first half for the Nuggets, who hold a 59-42
lead over the Heat in Game 1 at halftime. Jokic leads the way with 10 points
and 10 assists, while Murray has poured in 18 points. Adebayo has 16 for the
Heat, who have gone 4-17 from behind the arc so far. It’s been all Nuggets
and
them winning with the cover is looking great right now. The under on 219 is
also looking excellent.

Joker to Murray for three Jokic with 10 AST. Murray up to 18 PTS. Nuggets
lead at halftime on ABC! pic.twitter.com/0eIV6Z8zwy — NBA (@NBA) June 2, 2023

Joker to Murray for three Jokic with 10 AST. Murray up to 18 PTS. Nuggets
lead at halftime on ABC! pic.twitter.com/0eIV6Z8zwy

Second quarter - The Heat have not been able to connect from behind the arc
in this game, shooting 3-13 from the perimeter so far. Jokic has been
phenomenal as expected with eight points, eight assists and three rebounds
while Gordon and Murray have combined for 25 points. The Nuggets have opened
up a 50-37 lead with just over three minutes to go in the first half.

Second quarter - Porter Jr. took a shot from Adebayo on a loose ball but the
play was not blown dead and the Heat were able to get an easy layup. The
Nuggets still hold a 39-31 lead.

Second quarter - Michael Porter Jr. has hit his second triple of the game as
the Nuggets have opened up a double-digit advantage. Murray has also hit a
triple in this quarter as Denver tries to break Miami’s zone defense. The
Heat
had success zoning the Celtics but the Nuggets might have better overall
shooting to beat it.

End of the first quarter - The Nuggets hold a 29-20 lead over the Heat at the
end of the first quarter, so there’s been little rust despite having more
than
a week off. Miami has missed some easy shots, but has not done well defending
Denver in the halfcourt. At the moment, Nuggets -8.5 is looking solid. The
under on 219 is looking promising as well.

First quarter - It’s 27-20 Nuggets with just under two minutes left in the
first quarter. Gordon has been cooking with 12 points, and the Heat simply
don’t have an answer for him in the paint. Nikola Jokic already has five
assists but hasn’t taken a shot yet. Murray has eight points early. For the
Heat, Butler has seven points and Bam Adebayo has come alive with eight
points.

First quarter - We’ve hit the first timeout of Game 1 and it’s been the Aaron
Gordon show so far. He’s got eight points on 4-6 shooting as the Nuggets have
jumped out to a 14-9 lead. Jimmy Butler leads the Heat with five points.

AG starts STRONG He's got 8 points less than halfway through Q1 on
ABC!#NBAFinals presented by @YouTubeTV pic.twitter.com/NBWy4ObjZo — NBA
(@NBA)
June 2, 2023

AG starts STRONG He's got 8 points less than halfway through Q1 on
ABC!#NBAFinals presented by @YouTubeTV pic.twitter.com/NBWy4ObjZo

First quarter - Jamal Murray turns the corner on a screen and makes a tough
contested shot for the first bucket of the 2023 NBA Finals.

Jamal Murray hangs & hits! The first bucket of the #NBAFinals presented by
@YouTubeTV on ABC pic.twitter.com/lVIGO9CXzw — NBA (@NBA) June 2, 2023

Jamal Murray hangs & hits! The first bucket of the #NBAFinals presented by
@YouTubeTV on ABC pic.twitter.com/lVIGO9CXzw

Pregame - We’ve got the starting lineups for both sides and they are going to
be unchanged entering Game 1. The Heat will start with Gabe Vincent, Max
Strus, Caleb Martin, Jimmy Butler and Bam Adebayo. The Nuggets will start
with
Jamal Murray, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Michael Porter Jr., Aaron Gordon and
Nikola Jokic.

Pregame - The outcome of this Finals series will be determined by plenty of
matchups, but there are five in particular to highlight. The team which wins
more of these matchups is more likely to win the series and the title.

Pregame - Here’s what DK Nation has surrounding Game 1 for those who haven’t
had a chance to look at the lines or make bets. We’ve got game picks, Heat
and
Nuggets player props, DFS lineup advice and Same Game Parlays. We’ve also got
a look at how the public is betting on tonight’s game and the series as a
whole.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://dknation.draftkings.com/2023/6/1/23742693/nba-finals-2023-heat-vs-nuggets-game-1-live-updates-odds-stats-video-highlights-score-recap

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Heat vs. Nuggets final score: Nikola Jokic, Jamal Murray dominate as Denver takes Game 1 104-93 - DraftKings Nation
