
[1] Read Details

By Stephen Nellis

CUPERTINO, California, June 5 (Reuters) - Apple (AAPL.O) on Monday unveiled a
costly augmented-reality headset called the Vision Pro in its riskiest bet
since the introduction of the iPhone more than a decade ago, barging into a
market dominated by Meta (META.O).

At its annual developer conference, Apple also introduced a raft of new
products and features, including a 15-inch MacBook Air, a powerful chip
called
M2 Ultra, improvements to its iOS software and a long-awaited tweak to
prevent
its autocorrect from annoyingly changing a common expletive to "ducking".

The Vision Pro will start at $3,499, more than three times the cost of the
priciest headset in Meta's line of mixed and virtual reality devices.

The headset will test a market crowded with devices that have yet to gain
traction with consumers and put it in direct competition with Facebook-owner
Meta after years of clashes between the companies over issues like user
privacy and control of developer platforms.

Apple emphasized the novelty of the headset's augmented reality features as
well as the sports and entertainment partnerships it would offer. The device
will use a new chip called R1 that will process information from its sensors
in less time than the blink of an eye, Apple said.

But the announcements failed to excite Wall Street, which had bid up Apple
shares to a record high ahead of the launch. The stock was largely flat in
post-market trading.

"Wealthy, techie early adopters will buy the Vision Pro in droves, but still
years to move the needle for the mammoth Apple," said David Rolfe, chief
investment officer of Wedgewood Partners that has owned Apple stock since
2005.

Rolfe said there was not yet a mass market for the headset but lauded the
product's technological chops. "Apples Vision Pro reminds me of the very
early
days of the personal computer revolution. It took many years for the PC to
become a mainstream product. Same with VisionPro."

Users of the Vision Pro will be able to select content inside the goggles
with their eyes, tap their fingers together to click and gently flick to
scroll, while also using a three-dimensional camera and microphone system to
capture videos and pictures than can be viewed in 3D later.

In its most visually striking difference from Meta's headsets, the device
also has an exterior display that shows the user's eyes to people in the
outside world.

The exterior screen goes dark when a user is fully immersed in a virtual
world. When a person approaches a user who is in full virtual mode, the
headset will show both the user and the outside person to each other, an
augmented reality advancement over Meta's devices, which show a more basic
video feed of the outside world.

"It's the first Apple product you look through, not at," Apple CEO Tim Cook
said.

Apple's headset will be available early next year in the U.S. with more
countries coming later in 2024.

===== HEAD-TO-HEAD =====

[1/4] People use cameras as Apple's Vision Pro headsets are on display at
Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference at the company's headquarters
in Cupertino, California, U.S. June 5, 2023. REUTERS/Loren Elliott

Investors will want to know the overlap between Apple's view of the virtual
reality market and that of Meta, which currently controls nearly 80% of the
market for AR/VR devices, according to market research firm IDC.

Meta Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has outlined his vision for using
headsets to dip in and out of a "metaverse" where people can meet virtually
to
work, play and spend. Apple executives eschewed the term.

"The core difference to me is Zuckerberg is trying to create a virtual world
that he wants us to be in, and it seems to me that Apple wants to keep us
still anchored in our world and just augment it," said Carolina Milanesi, an
analyst at Creative Strategies.

In addition to Meta, Sony Group Corp (6758.T) and ByteDance-owned Pico both
produce virtual reality devices.

IDC said all these companies sold a total of 8.8 million headsets last year.

Apple said it has been working with Adobe (ADBE.O) and Microsoft (MSFT.O) to
put their apps on the new headset, as well as Unity (U.N), a technology
company that works with game developers. Unity shares surged 17% after the
announcement.

Walt Disney's (DIS.N) Disney+ streaming service will be available on the
Vision Pro, as will the collection of movies and TV shows from Apple TV+.

Apple also showed how the headset can be used with a trackpad and keyboard to
work like a traditional computer with multiple displays.

The Vision Pro has two hours of use with an external battery, which Apple
said would reduce the weight on the user's head. However, the device must be
plugged into the wall or battery pack and there is no standalone use.

Meta's top of the line Quest Pro mixed reality device, which blends virtual
reality with the real world video feed, offers about two hours of battery
life
directly on the headset, without an external battery pack. Meta also offers
Microsoft apps on its Quest devices.

Apple did not make any major announcements about generative AI products
similar to ChatGPT or Google's Bard search engine, but quietly imbued several
smaller features with AI, like live transcriptions of voice mails.

It introduced a new version of the Mac Pro, its highest-performing desktop,
with a company-designed M2 Ultra chip.

Until Monday, the Mac Pro was the last computer in Apple's lineup that still
used an Intel (INTC.O) chip. Intel fell 4.6% after Apple dropped its chips
from its most powerful desktop.

Reporting by Stephen Nellis; Additional reporting by Yuvraj Malik, Raechel
Job and Shanima A in Bengaluru; Dawn Chmielewski in Los Angeles; Writing by
Katie Paul and Lisa Shumaker; Editing by Peter Henderson, Aditya Soni,
Sayantani Ghosh and Ken Li

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.reuters.com/technology/apple-expected-reveal-mixed-reality-headset-developer-conference-2023-06-05/

LICENSE: Â© 2023 Reuters. All rights reserved

=========================================


$
[B:t] Apple to sell Vision Pro AR headset for triple Meta's top-line price | Reuters
