
[1] Read Details

North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper Terms January 1, 2017 - December 31, 2020
January 1, 2021 - Current Party Democratic Born June 13, 1957 Birth State
North Carolina School University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Spouse
Kristin Cooper

===== About =====

Governor Roy Cooper has spent nearly three decades in public service
protecting families, keeping communities safe, and working to create jobs and
improve schools. The son of a school teacher, he knows that education creates
opportunity and he has worked throughout his career to strengthen our schools
and create a sound foundation for our state’s children.

In the NC House and Senate, Gov. Cooper fought to increase teacher pay and
reduce class sizes. He wrote North Carolina’s first children’s health
insurance initiative. During his service in the legislature, Gov. Cooper
worked with members of both parties to get balanced budgets that raised
teacher pay to the national average, grow the economy and cut taxes for
middle
class families. In 2000, the people of North Carolina elected Gov. Cooper as
Attorney General, where he continued to fight for families during his four
terms.

Born and raised in Nash County, he attended public schools and worked summers
on the family farm before attending UNC-Chapel Hill on a Morehead
Scholarship.
His mother, Beverly Cooper, worked as a school teacher, and his father, Roy
Cooper Jr., farmed and practiced law. After earning a law degree from UNC,
Roy
Cooper returned home to Nash County to practice law and, with his wife
Kristin, raise three daughters – Hilary, Natalie, and Claire.

===== Staff =====

Office of the Governor 20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-0301 Phone
919/814-2000 Fax 919/733-2120

Additional Information Governor's Website Governor's Bio State Website

===== Search For Former Governors =====

This searchable database identifies former governors by state and dates of
service. The governors' biographies available on the NGA website provide
summary biographical information only and are edited infrequently.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.nga.org/governor/roy-cooper/

LICENSE: © 2023 NGA. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Roy Cooper - National Governors Association
