
[1] Read Details

This article does not have any sources. You can help Wikipedia by finding
good sources, and adding them. (October 2019)

The Kelvin scale (symbol: K) is the SI unit of temperature. It is named in
honour of the physicist William Thomson, the first Lord Kelvin (1824–1907). 0
degree Celsius = 273 kelvin

===== Definition =====

The Kelvin scale is defined by a specific relationship between the pressure
of a gas and the temperature. This says that "the pressure of the gas is
directly proportional to the temperature in Kelvin". This means that Kelvin
is
an absolute temperature scale, and scientists use this scale more than any
other.

The kelvin is a base SI unit of measurement, since 2018 defined by setting
the fixed numerical value of the Boltzmann constant k to 1.380649×10−23
J⋅K−1.[1]

The temperature of the triple point of water is a hundredth of a degree
Celsius above the freezing point, or 0.01 °C. The coldest possible
temperature
is called absolute zero and is equal to -273.15 degrees Celsius, or zero
kelvin (0 K). By writing temperatures in kelvins one does not need to use
negative numbers.

The absolute temperature scale was designed so that a change in temperature
of 1 kelvin is equal to a change of 1 degree Celsius. This means that it is
easy to convert a temperature from degrees Celsius to kelvin.

It is important to notice that the name of this unit is simply kelvin (with a
lowercase initial), not "degree Kelvin". In English, it undergoes normal
plural inflection as kelvins. For example, the boiling point of liquid
nitrogen is 77 kelvins.

In everyday use, the kelvin is most commonly used to measure very low or very
high temperatures, such as the temperature of liquid nitrogen or the
temperature of a light bulb filament.

===== References =====

↑ "Kelvin: Boltzmann Constant". NIST. 2018-05-15. Retrieved 2021-02-16.{{cite
journal}}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)

===== Related pages =====

v t e

Authority: International System of Units (BIPM)

ampere candela kelvin kilogram metre mole second

becquerel coulomb degree Celsius farad gray henry hertz joule katal lumen lux
newton ohm pascal radian siemens sievert steradian tesla volt watt weber

astronomical unit bar dalton day decibel degree of arc electronvolt hectare
hour litre minute minute of arc neper second of arc tonne atomic units
natural
units

Conversion of units Metric prefixes Systems of measurement

Retrieved from
"https://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kelvin&oldid=8336350"

Categories: SI units Units of temperature

Hidden categories: CS1 maint: url-status Articles lacking sources from
October 2019 All articles lacking sources



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelvin

LICENSE: Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike and GFDL

=========================================


$
[B:t] Kelvin - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
