
[1] Read Details

===== Contents =====

1History

2Location

3Admissions

4Academics

5Rankings

6Campus and student life

6.1Technical Festival

7Notable alumni

8See also

9References

10External links

Coordinates: 34°7′30″N 74°50′23″E﻿ / ﻿34.12500°N 74.83972°E﻿ / 34.12500;
74.83972

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve
this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may
be challenged and removed. Find sources: "National Institute of Technology,
Srinagar" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2017) (Learn
how and when to remove this template message)

Emblem of NIT Srinagar

Former name

Minaz Zulmati-e-lan-Noor

Motto in English

Academic staff

Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir

190006

National Institute of Technology Srinagar (NIT Srinagar or NITSRI) is a
public technical university located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It
is one of the 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and as such is
directly under the control of the Ministry of Education (MoE). It was
established in 1960 as one of several Regional Engineering Colleges
established as part of the Second Five Year Plan (1956–61) by the Government
of India. It is governed by the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007
which has declared it as Institute of National Importance.

NIT Srinagar admits its undergraduate students through Joint Entrance
Examination (Mains), previously AIEEE. It has 12 academic departments
covering
Engineering, Applied Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences programs. Also,
the medium of instruction is English.

===== History =====

NIT Srinagar was established in 1960 as the Regional Engineering College,
Srinagar. The first chairman was Wajahat Habibullah IAS (2004-2014)It was one
of the first eight Regional Engineering Colleges established by Government of
India during the first Five Year Plan.[citation needed] The institute shifted
to its present campus in 1965. The Regional Engineering College, Srinagar was
upgraded to become the National Institute of Technology, Srinagar in July,
2003.[4] In the same year, the institution was granted Deemed University
status with the approval of the University Grants Commission, All India
Council of Technical Education and the Government of India. On 15 August 2007
it became an Institute of National Importance[5] under the NIT Bill passed by
the parliament of India.[6][7]

===== Location =====

The institute is located on the western bank of Dal Lake near the Hazratbal
Shrine in the north eastern region of the Srinagar city.[8][9] The institute
is located 23 km from the Srinagar International Airport and 13 km from
Srinagar railway station.

===== Admissions =====

The admissions to undergraduate through Joint Entrance Examination (Main)
(JEE-Main)[10] or Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) (through SAT),
for non-resident Indians.[citation needed] Admission to postgraduate courses
is done based on Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) scores, through
Centralized Counselling for M.Tech. (CCMT) for M.Tech. courses[11] and though
Joint Admission Test for M.Sc. for M.Sc. courses.[12]

===== Academics =====

The university includes eight engineering departments, for Chemical
Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical
Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, and Information
Technology, as well as four Physical Sciences departments for Physics,
Chemistry, humanities and Mathematics.[13]

===== Rankings =====

NIT Srinagar is ranked 66th among the engineering colleges of India by
National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2022.[14] In "India
Today's
Annual Rankings 2022", NIT Srinagar secures 24th Rank among best Engineering
Colleges in India.

Also, NIT Srinagar has secured 36th rank in global HE Higher Education
Ranking, 2023 edition. As per the communiqué issued by the HE Higher
Education
reads that a certificate is awarded to NIT Srinagar, J&K for being ranked
(36th) in HE Higher Education Ranking, 2023 edition.

===== Campus and student life =====

This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve
this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2017) (Learn how
and when to remove this template message)

NIT campus is located on the bank of Dal Lake. Hazratbal Shrine is at a
walkable distance from the institute. The campus consists of academic
buildings, student hostels with 100% residential facilities for faculty,
staff, and students. The Health Centre provides medical care to students,
teachers, staff, and family members.

The Central Library is automated and provides services seven days a week,
catering to more than 3500 users belonging to 12 departments and centers. The
library houses 75,000 books.[15]

There are a campus-wide fibre optic and Wi-Fi network, which covers all the
departments, teachers' quarters, and students' hostels. There are a central
computer lab and computer labs in each Departments. Institute is also part of
high speed National Knowledge Network.

The Institute provides separate hostels for the male and female students with
separate mess facilities. There are also guesthouses available to meet
additional temporary housing needs.

For the first three years of Btech, each hostel room is shared by 5 students
each while in the 4th year each student is allotted a single room in the
Jhelum hostel. The rooms in the Jhelum hostel are allotted on the basis of
CGPA(up to the 5th semester). The students who are not able to get a single
room in the Jhelum hostel are allotted Dal hostels where the students reside
in the ratio of 2 students per room. The M-tech students and Ph.D. scholars
are allotted the Tawi hostel during their stay on the campus. In the Tawi
hostel, each room is shared by three students.

There is a Common Hall, adjacent to the hostels, which provides facilities
for indoor games like table-tennis and carom, along with a gymnasium. The
institute has a Maintenance Engineering Centre set up under the Indo-Italian
collaboration. The center caters to the maintenance engineering needs of the
Institute and the region as a whole in respect of research, consultancy, and
academics.

Techvaganza is the National Level Technical Festival (Tech-Fest) of NIT
Srinagar. It usually occurs in the month of April every year.[16] 3.
Techvaganza is a national level technical festival held annually at National
institute of technology Srinagar in Srinagar. It is the first
Techno-Management festival in region. With the initiation of Techvaganza in
2009, it has emerged as one of the biggest technical carnival among all. The
main aim is to uplift the technical level of the region and provide a
platform
for technical tender buds to innovate, fabricate and gain experience in the
field of technology and management

===== Notable alumni =====

===== See also =====

===== References =====

^ "National Institute of Technology Srinagar". National Institute of
Technology, Srinagar. Retrieved 3 June 2023. ^ "National Institute of
Technology Srinagar". National Institute of Technology, Srinagar. Retrieved 3
June 2023. ^ "Prof. Sudhakar Yedla assumes charge as Director NIT Srinagar".
Retrieved 3 June 2023. ^ "Title unknown". The Hindu. Chennai, India. 17
August
2003. Archived from the original on 19 October 2003. ^ "University And Higher
Education - Government of India, Ministry of Human Resource Development".
Retrieved 12 June 2015. ^ "Three Bills passed in 15 minutes". The Hindu. 15
May 2007. Archived from the original on 17 May 2007. ^ "National Institute of
Technology Act 2006" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 March
2009.
Retrieved 1 May 2008. ^ "NIT Srinagar". ^ "REC (NIT)Srinagar Alumni". ^ "14
lakh examinees get ready to take JEE mains". The Times of India. Archived
from
the original on 9 April 2013. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original
on
28 April 2019. Retrieved 11 February 2017.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived
copy as title (link) ^ (PDF)
https://www.nitsri.ac.in/uploaded_files/JAM2020.pdf. {{cite web}}: Missing or
empty |title= (help) ^ "Home Page". Retrieved 18 August 2017. click on
"centers". ^ a b "National Institutional Ranking Framework 2022
(Engineering)". National Institutional Ranking Framework. Ministry of
Education. 15 July 2022. ^ "Library section". ^
https://techvaganza.org/event/view/31. {{cite web}}: Missing or empty |title=
(help) ^ Vaishnavi in searchable alumni database, NIT Srinagar ^ "Members :
Lok Sabha". Lok Sabha website. Retrieved 6 October 2017. ^ "Gupta N.K."
am.iitd.ac.in. Retrieved 15 June 2020. ^ "Lt Gen RS Reen".

===== External links =====

v t e

Agartala Allahabad Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Bhopal Calicut Delhi
Durgapur Goa Hamirpur Jaipur Jalandhar Jamshedpur Kurukshetra Manipur
Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Nagpur Patna Puducherry Raipur Rourkela Silchar
Sikkim Srinagar Surat Karnataka Tiruchirappalli Uttarakhand Warangal

Joint Entrance Examination – Main Common Admission Test Graduate Aptitude
Test in Engineering NIT MCA Common Entrance Test Joint Seat Allocation
Authority

Ojass Technozion Techspardha Pragyan

Aarohi SpringSpree Festember Ragam Sparsh Incident Nitrutsav

NIT Tiruchirappalli Alumni of other NITs

National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act, 2007
Institutes of National Importance Council of NITSER

AIIMSs IIITs IIMs IISc IITs IISERs NIPERs SPAs NIDs NIFTs NISER

Category Commons

Retrieved from
i"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Institute_of_Technology,_Srinagar&oldid=1158341881"

Categories: National Institutes of Technology Universities and colleges in
Srinagar Engineering colleges in Jammu and Kashmir Education in Srinagar
Educational institutions established in 1960 1960 establishments in Jammu and
Kashmir All India Council for Technical Education

Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title CS1 errors: missing
title CS1 errors: bare URL Use dmy dates from May 2016 Use Indian English
from
May 2016 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles needing
additional references from August 2017 All articles needing additional
references Coordinates on Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID
on
Wikidata Articles using infobox university All articles with unsourced
statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017 Articles with
unsourced statements from September 2017 Articles needing additional
references from September 2017 Articles with unsourced statements from
January
2018 Articles with ISNI identifiers Pages using the Kartographer extension



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Institute_of_Technology,_Srinagar

LICENSE: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike

=========================================


$
[B:t] National Institute of Technology, Srinagar - Wikipedia
