
[1] Read Details

by: Steve Doyle

Posted: May 22, 2023 / 05:13 PM EDT

Updated: May 23, 2023 / 10:29 AM EDT

RALEIGH, N.C. (WGHP) – With his name on no ballot, North Carolina Gov. Roy
Cooper is sparing no words in attacking the Republican-controlled General
Assembly, this time saying there is “a state of emergency for public
education.”

Cooper lost in veto-override votes on pistol permits and then a restructuring
of abortion rights to the GOP’s supermajority in both the House and the
Senate, two issues he campaigned heavily to combat in the public arena.

Now he is citing smaller raises for teachers coupled with a cut in state
revenue in the Senate’s proposed budget and the expansion of private-school
vouchers as significant problems that are “aiming to choke the life out of
public education.

“There is no executive order like there is for a hurricane or the pandemic,”
Cooper said, “but this is no less important.”

The Senate’s budget gives teachers a 4.5% raise over the next two years and
plans to cut the personal and corporate income tax rates, making the personal
rate 4.5% by 2024, which Cooper cited primarily as a “tax break for
millionaires.”

The House had suggested 10.2% raises for teachers in the biennium, and Cooper
had pushed for 18% in the budget concept he provided earlier in the spring.
Senators cite the $34.8 billion budgeted for education these next two years
as
a strong investment.

“The Senate has given veteran teachers a $250 raise spread over two years,”
Cooper said. “That’s a slap in the face and will make our teacher shortage
worse.”

The House soon will reject the Senate’s budget, which will begin a conference
process to achieve compromise. Cooper’s veto pen eventually will get another
test.

And that window of opportunity is why Cooper is imploring the public to get
involved now, while there still could be an impact.

“I’m fighting back, and I need you to, too,” Cooper said. He directed the
public to his website, where a banner links to information about the
situation
and coaches the public on how “you can connect with your state legislators
and
tell them to support public education.

“Commit to call, write or visit with legislators. Our children need us right
now,” he said.

Senate Leader Phil Berger (R-Rockingham) responded quickly with a statement
from his spokesperson.

“Meaningless publicity stunts do nothing to improve educational outcomes in
our state,” Randy Brechbiel of the Senate President Pro Tempore’s office
wrote
in response to a query from WGHP. “The House and Senate will continue working
together to put forward budget proposals that address the needs of students
and parents.”

===== Voucher expansion =====

Unsurprisingly Cooper’s first salvo was aimed at the school voucher program,
which Republicans in the House and the Senate both voted to expand to all
levels of income, not just the poorer residents who originally were to be
helped with tuition to private schools.

House Bill 823 passed last week, and its twin, Senate Bill 406, also has
moved along. The Senate’s budget includes the so-called “opportunity
scholarships.”

New Republican Rep. Tricia Cotham of Mecklenburg County said vouchers are
“important to so many families. Education is not ‘one size fits all.’ I am a
strong supporter of traditional public schools, of charter schools and
private
schools.”

Even U.S. Sen. Thom Tills (R-NC), a former speaker of the state House,
responded to Cooper on Twitter by saying, “’Opportunity Scholarships’ have
opened doors for thousands of children in NC to receive a high-quality
education. Families deserve to have more freedom, not more fearmongering and
special interest-driven mandates from liberal politicians.”

Cooper, for his part, said the expansion meant that “even a millionaire can
get taxpayer money for private academy tuition.”

He said such investments would shrink the budget for public education by 20%
and that he had heard from cash-strapped school districts that may have to
“eliminate Early College, AP courses, arts and sports” to meet their budgets.
He did not mention the long-litigated Leandro case to fund public education
that lawmakers have fought and the courts continue to police.

Cooper said the students bounced back from the learning loss during the
COVID-19 pandemic because of the investment of $5 billion in emergency
federal
funding, and he cautioned in backing away from such investments.

“A strong state economy is built on strong schools at every level.
Investments in schools work,” he said.

===== Other issues =====

In his presentation, Cooper also cited:

“The North Carolina I know was built on support for public schools,” he said.
“We can’t let the legislature tear them down.”



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://myfox8.com/news/north-carolina/north-carolina-gov-roy-cooper-declares-state-of-emergency-for-public-education/

LICENSE: Copyright 2023 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper declares ‘state of emergency’ for public education | FOX8 WGHP
