
[1] Read Details

May 21, 2023 1:06pm PT

The top session drummer will be joining the Foo Fighters for a touring season
that starts May 24.

By Thania Garcia

The Foo Fighters are gearing up for a bustling touring season — their first
without drummer Taylor Hawkins, who died tragically in Colombia last year —
that kicks off with a date in New Hampshire in the coming week.

Taking on the challenge of filling Hawkins’ role, as Variety tipped back in
January, will be Josh Freese. Although the name might not seem entirely
familiar at first glance, it’s more than likely you’ve either heard or even
own a record that has him listed in the credits.

Freese joins the group after having played alongside a star-studded lineup
for the Hawkins tribute concerts that the Foos put together in London and Los
Angeles last fall. He’s also a longtime friend of both Grohl and Hawkins and
is a seasoned session act who has performed and toured with rock bands Guns
N’
Roses, A Perfect Circle, Puddle of Mudd, Nine Inch Nails, Weezer, Paramore,
the Replacements, Sting and the Vandals, to name a few. Freese was most
recently drumming for Danny Elfman and the Offspring, with whom he was
touring
up until last year.

He grew up in a family of musicians, with his father working as a musical
director at the Walt Disney Company and his mother being a trained classical
pianist. He’s also released numerous solo projects where he’s credited as the
singer, songwriter and instrumentalist.

As his experience clearly depicts, Freese has no trouble switching up styles.
Over the years his resume has expanded to include more than 300 recordings in
genres ranging from pop to country, co-writing songs with Queens of the Stone
Age, Devo and Sting. With a pristine reputation as one of the most in-demand
session drummers in the business, he has also recorded for Katy Perry,
Michael
Bublé, Nelly Furtado, Kelly Clarkson, Avril Lavigne, Social Distortion and
others.

“It’s not like I woke up one day and said, ‘I’m going to be a session
drummer.’ It just sort of happened,” Freese told the blog Drummer’s Journal
in
2016. “Aside from having multiple sources of income, I like the variety of
playing music with different people in different situations. Maybe if I was
the drummer for Muse, I could say, ‘Ok, I’m successful enough where I don’t
have to do anything else except concentrate on my band.’ … Being in just one
band… I honestly fantasize about that sometimes. I’m only human.”

You can catch Freese and the Foos on the band’s upcoming tour that starts May
24 at the Bank of New Hampshire Pavilion in Gilford, NH.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://variety.com/2023/music/news/foo-fighters-new-drummer-josh-freese-career-musical-history-1235617641/

LICENSE: © 2023 Variety Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Who Is New Foo Fighters Drummer Josh Freese? Career History And More - Variety
