
[1] Read Details

Apple’s $3,499 Vision Pro AR headset is finally here

Brian Heater @bheater / 1 day

After a reported seven years of development, Apple’s AR headset is finally
here. It’s been a minute since we’ve had a “one more thing” moment. The
wisdom, efficacy and ultimate fate of the product have yet to be determined,
but one thing we can finally say for certain: Unlike the long-rumored Apple
television and car, it’s real and it’s finally here.

“With Vision Pro, you’re no longer limited by a display,” Apple CEO Tim Cook
said, introducing the new headset at WWDC 2023. Unlike earlier mixed reality
reports, the system is far more focused on augmented reality than virtual.
The
company refresh to this new paradigm is “spatial computing.”

It’s a way of interacting with the computing UI — something the company is
referring to as a kind of input device, akin to a mouse or trackpad. The
headset is surprisingly similar to earlier renders — it does, indeed, look
like ski googles. Clearly this thing isn’t meant to be worn outside the home
or office.

The headset is based on an aluminum frame, with curved glass up front.
There’s a physical button for image capture and a digital crown for
adjustments. The rear is a flexible strap, and a visor extends from the
display to the wearer’s head, to keep light out. On the sides are built-in
“audio pods,” providing the sound.This is finally spatial audio’s time to
shine — it’s now clear why Apple has been pushing it in such a big way. The
system is designed to create the illusion of different audio sources.

The headset runs on the standard M2 chip, paired with a new R1 chip, which
takes on the video streaming. The displays are micro-OLED, with an impressive
64 pixels in roughly the space of a standard iPhone pixel. The three-element
lens is designed to improve the imaging from all angles. The company also
teamed up with Zeiss to bring custom prescription glass inserts, rather than
accommodating for the wearer’s glasses.

The hardware utilizes a new feature called “EyeSight,” which uses a
front-facing display to reveal your eyes to other people in the room
(compensating for the opaque visor), creating an “authentic representation of
you” on the curved front glass. This is accomplished through an initial
facial
scan. That image is also used as your avatar to represent you to other people
wearing the headset.

While the product is, indeed, mixed reality (owing to the need for on-board
passthrough), the company seems disinterested in engaging in the virtual
reality conversation.

Interestingly, it does appear to be a work-first device. It’s telling that
the company is focused on things like email, rather than, say, gaming. In
fact, users can actually bring a version of their Mac desktop over, projected
out in front of them. Apple really went to great lengths to avoid a
touchscreen Mac, it seems.

The opaque display lets the room darken around images. In fact, the company
is really pushing 2D photos taken from the iPhone here. There’s a 3D camera
built in, as well, allowing users to capture “Spatial” photos and videos.
There’s a movie theater option, too, taking advantage of the illusion of a
full, large screen. There is gaming here, but rather than an actual VR
experience, it’s a large screen projection, with standard games.

Disney (who else?) is the first content partner here, which does bode well
for future experiences. Bob Iger took to the stage today to announce that
Disney+ will be available at launch on the device. The entertainment mogul
understandably had a lot of faith in Apple here.

In spite of earlier rumors around an adapted iPadOS, the company introduced
VisionOS, a new operating system “designed from the ground up” for spatial
computing. Much like the iPad’s initial launch, there are a number of
educational features, including astronomical and health apps, as well as one
for music creation.

Apple says the system will work with Microsoft Office apps, as well as
teleconferencing services like WebEX and Zoom. VisionOS runs on the same
framework as iOS and iPad OS, meaning that existing apps will port over. The
company is also launching a new App Store specifically for the headset. It’s
teamed with Unity, as well, to support development tools for games, which
should offer a better experience than simply porting over existing games.

A new version of FaceID called OpticId brings security features for using
things like Apple Pay. Meanwhile, camera data is processed onboard and the
company doesn’t log where you look.

What’s clear is this is all extremely early stages. For one thing, the
product was announced today, in order to bring more developers onboard. For
another, the experience as depicted in the presentation is all renders. Of
course, that also owes to the difficulty of presenting a 3D experience on a
2D
video — this is something the company will keep running into with the
product.

It will be available early next year. Better start saving up now, because
this thing is going to run $3,499. Yep. It’s clearly focused on enterprise
buyers, rather than regular consumers. Keep in mind, however, the “Pro” part
of the name seems to suggest that a more affordable (relatively speaking)
version will be coming at some point in the future.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://techcrunch.com/2023/06/05/apple-headset/

LICENSE: © 2023 Yahoo.All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Apple’s $3,499 Vision Pro AR headset is finally here | TechCrunch
