
[1] Read Details

Josh Freese of the Vandals performs at the 2022 Coachella festival. Freese
has replaced the late Taylor Hawkins as the drummer in the Foo Fighters.
Photograph: Scott Dudelson/Getty Images for Coachella

Foo Fighters announce Josh Freese as new drummer after Taylor Hawkins’ death

Freese, who previously played at tribute concerts for Hawkins, was announced
as the new drummer in a starry, tongue-in-cheek livestream

Foo Fighters have unveiled their new drummer after the death of their former
percussionist Taylor Hawkins: the veteran session musician Josh Freese.

Freese has accrued a long and star-studded list of credits over his
three-decade career. The 50-year-old drummer has been a member of Devo since
1996 and the Vandals since 1989. He has also toured with the Offspring, Guns
N’ Roses, Danny Elfman, Weezer, Sting, Paramore, Nine Inch Nails and 100
Gecs.

The band revealed the news on Sunday in a tongue-in-cheek livestream titled
Foo Fighters: Preparing Music for Concerts, which promised “a few surprises”.

Taylor Hawkins tribute concert review – stars unite to honour the late Foo
Fighters drummer

Recorded in their studio, the livestream opened with the band teasing the
identity of their new drummer by calling in a slew of famous cameos.

Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith made a boisterous entrance – only to
complain that someone was blocking his way in the car park. Motley Crue’s
Tommy Lee appeared with a food delivery, while Tool’s Danny Carey showed up
with a pair of poodles.

A voice then interrupted the proceedings, and the camera cut to an
exasperated Freese, who had been waiting off-camera behind a drum kit.
“Excuse
me!” he shouted. “Could we just, like … play a song?”

Thanks for joining us. It will be streaming on @Veeps for 72 hours on demand
if you missed it: https://t.co/hzz5G9mOKy We'll see you all soon.
pic.twitter.com/c7NATC6lzD — Foo Fighters (@foofighters) May 21, 2023

Thanks for joining us. It will be streaming on @Veeps for 72 hours on demand
if you missed it: https://t.co/hzz5G9mOKy We'll see you all soon.
pic.twitter.com/c7NATC6lzD

The livestream featured an eight-song set, including new tracks from Foo
Fighters’ upcoming 11th album, But Here We Are.

In January, the band announced they would remain together and continue
performing after the death of Hawkins, who died aged 50 last year while on
tour in Colombia.

“Without Taylor, we never would have become the band that we were,” they
wrote in a statement. “And without Taylor, we know that we’re going to be a
different band going forward.”

01:26

Freese’s first show with Foo Fighters will take place in New Hampshire on 24
May, the opening leg of a global tour that will stretch until late 2023.

The tour marks the first time the band have performed live since their two
memorial concerts for Hawkins last September, where an all-star lineup of
musicians including Paul McCartney, Queen and Mark Ronson paid tribute to the
late drummer.

Freese himself performed with Foo Fighters at those concerts, playing on
Hawkins’ drums.

“I was asked what drums I’d like to use,” he wrote on Instagram at the time.
“Without hesitation I said, ‘Taylor’s drums need to be up there and I want to
play on his exact set-up.’”

No cause of death for Hawkins has been announced, but a toxicology report
showed traces of 10 substances in Hawkins’s body, including opioids,
marijuana
and antidepressants.

Foo Fighters Pop and rock news



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.theguardian.com/music/2023/may/22/foo-fighters-announce-josh-freese-as-new-drummer-after-taylor-hawkins-death

LICENSE: © 2023 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Foo Fighters announce Josh Freese as new drummer after Taylor Hawkins’ death | Foo Fighters | The Guardian
