
[1] Read Details

The country’s largest active volcano began erupting late last week, and
millions of people are facing possible evacuation orders.

===== The country’s largest active volcano began erupting late last week, and
millions of people are facing possible evacuation orders. =====

·Senior Writer

May 23, 2023 at 4:07 PM·3 min read

Three million people living near Mexico’s nearly 18,000-foot Popocatépetl
volcano are facing evacuation orders as it continues to spew ash across the
region, forcing schools to close and hundreds of flights to be delayed or
canceled.

Here’s everything we know about the volcano and its impact on those living
near it, culled from original reporting and Yahoo’s partner network,
including
the New York Times, NBC News and other publications.

===== Where is the volcano located? =====

Smoke and ash from the Popocatépetl volcano from Puebla, Mexico, on Monday.
(Erik Gomez Tochimani/AFP via Getty Images)

Popocatépetl, the country’s largest active volcano, is located in the states
of Puebla, Morelos, and the state of Mexico in central Mexico. Approximately
25 million people live within a 60-mile radius of the volcano, which is 45
miles southeast of Mexico City.

===== When was its last major eruption? =====

The volcano was inactive for decades before an eruption in 1994. In 2000, a
major eruption prompted the evacuation of about 50,000 people in the region.
Since then, mild to moderate activity has been seen from the volcano, or
“smoking mountain” as it is known by locals.

===== When did the recent activity begin? =====

A view of Popocatépetl from the town of Santiago Xalitzintla, Mexico, on May
12. (Imelda Medina/Reuters)

Popocatépetl began erupting earlier this month after officials detected
activity coming from it in mid-April. A satellite operated by NASA and the
U.S. Geological Survey captured images of some of the volcano's spring
activity on April 14.

A time-lapse video posted to Facebook by the National Disaster Prevention
Center of Mexico on Monday showed the volcano spewing smoke and ash at
sunrise.

===== Is this normal? =====

“Pretty much,” Jessica Ball, a volcanologist with the U.S. Geological Survey,
told the New York Times.

===== More volcano coverage from Yahoo News partners =====

The activity is “just part of being an active volcano,” Ball said, and added:
“There’s really no cycle on a human time scale that governs which volcanoes
erupt at which time.”

===== OK, so how high are the plumes? =====

A close-up view of Popocatépetl erupting on Monday. (Erik Gomez Tochimani/AFP
via Getty Images)

NASA said that researchers have measured plumes as high as 4.5 miles, and
forecasters warned that the area just south of Mexico City could see up to 32
millimeters of fall on Monday.

===== Four and a half miles high? =====

Yes. Popocatépetl's plume prompted flights to be halted for about five hours
at both of Mexico City's main airports on Saturday. As NBC News noted,
falling
ash in particular can block pilots' view, hinder radio communications and
affect jet engines.

===== What are officials there saying? =====

The Popocatépetl volcano on Tuesday. (Rafael Duran/AFP via Getty Images)

President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico said at a news conference on
Monday morning that he was monitoring the situation closely and is in contact
with federal and local officials about the volcano. The National Disaster
Prevention Center of Mexico on Sunday raised the alert level for the area
around Popocatépetl to phase 3, just shy of an evacuation order.

Sergio Salomón, the governor of the Mexican state of Puebla, said that the
roughly 3 million people who live in towns and villages adjacent to the
volcano should stay alert and prepare for a possible evacuation.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://news.yahoo.com/mexico-popocatepetl-volcano-erupts-smoke-ash-evacuations-200659206.html

LICENSE: © 2023 Yahoo. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Popocatépetl volcano erupts over central Mexico: What we know
