
[1] Read Details

Car Buying NewsCar TechCultureDealsNews by BrandRacingTrucksWatch This Video

The Drive InterviewsProject Car Diaries

AccessoriesBuy & SellCar CareCar PartsCars 101Cleaning & DetailingGas &
OilMaintenance & RepairToolsTires

The hateful message was broadcast on Wallace’s team radio shortly after he
crossed the line at North Wilkesboro Speedway.

byLewin Day| PUBLISHED May 22, 2023 8:00 PM EDT

NASCAR team radio transmissions can get vulgar or intense in the heat of the
moment, but outbursts of anger are usually limited to drivers, spotters, and
crew chiefs in the pits. At Sunday's All-Star Race, however, an unknown party
jumped on Bubba Wallace's frequency with a derogatory message.

As reported by Motorsport.com, the incident occurred shortly after Wallace
passed the checkered flag at North Wilkesboro Speedway on Sunday. An
unauthorized person was heard transmitting on Wallace's channel, which said
“Go back to where you came from you asshole. You’re not wanted in NASCAR."
After the incident, a spokesperson for 23XI Racing indicated that Wallace had
not heard the comments, nor acknowledged them over the radio.

Racing-wise, though, it was a good day for Wallace, albeit with a bittersweet
ending. He finished second behind Kyle Larson, who left with the $1 million
prize from the winner-takes-all race. “It just wasn’t meant to be,” Wallace
said in a video on Twitter, adding “We were the best of the rest, so I guess
we can be proud about that.” He made no mention of the radio incident.

NASCAR has confirmed it is investigating the matter to determine the
individuals involved and the manner in which they accessed Wallace's radio
channel. While series like Formula 1 use advanced encrypted radios, it bears
noting that NASCAR radio gear is decidedly more low-tech. This allows fans to
listen in to the analog transmissions using simple radio scanners using
frequency lists published online.

Based on that, it's plausible that an off-the-shelf UHF radio could have
allowed a bad actor to transmit on Bubba Wallace's channel for less than $50.
Wallace himself may not have heard the transmission, though. In crowded radio
environments like a racetrack, it's common to use a system like CTCSS that
requires the transmitting radio to append a series of coded tones at the
start
of each transmission. Without those tones, Wallace's radio wouldn't have let
the transmission through. The tones can be captured and spoofed, but this
basic technique is enough to prevent most unsophisticated users from
interfering with team transmissions.

The series continues to take a careful stance given the acrimonious
sentiments often displayed towards Wallace on social media. Wallace is
currently the only Black driver racing full-time in NASCAR's top series. He's
also only the second Black driver to win a race, after Wendell Scott back in
1964. Wallace himself been outspoken against racism in the sport, too. He
openly backed NASCAR's move to ban the Confederate flag from races, and
parted
ways with a helmet designer who came out in support of the racist symbol.

It's not the first time the series has had to look into similar issues,
either. In 2020, a noose was found tied in Wallace's garage. An FBI
investigation into the matter found the garage pull rope had been tied in a
hangman's knot the previous year before the stall was ever assigned to
Wallace. Despite this, the incident led to a flare-up of abuse directed
towards Wallace at the time.

Subscribe to Drive Wire. Stay up to speed with the latest news, car reviews,
and culture stories sent straight to your inbox daily.

If incidents like the above occur at other races, NASCAR may look to lock
down its radio systems. It would be a shame for fans who love to tune in from
the stands, but there's no room for abuse—especially when drivers are
circulating at hundreds of miles an hour.

Got a tip? Let the author know: lewin@thedrive.com

NASCARRacing



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.thedrive.com/news/youre-not-wanted-in-nascar-bubba-wallace-targeted-by-hateful-radio-hack

LICENSE: © 2022 Recurrent Ventures. All Rights Reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] 'You're Not Wanted in NASCAR': Bubba Wallace’s Radio Hijacked During Race
