
[1] Read Details

Faced with few choices on the resale market, homebuyers turned to newly built
houses in April, sending sales of these homes higher.

New home sales jumped 4.1% to a seasonally adjusted rate of 683,000 units
last month from the downwardly revised March rate of 656,000. That was 11.8%
above the year-ago level and above the Bloomberg consensus expectation of
665,000 units for April.

Homebuilders, though, anticipated the sales gain. PulteGroup (PHM) CEO Ryan
Marshall said April was performing "at a really strong level" in the
company's
earnings call last month, while D.R. Horton's (DHI) vice president of
investor
relations was "pleased with our sales pace in April."

The increase in sales underscores how homebuyers are considering all
alternatives to move forward on their purchase plans in a market lacking
previously-owned homes. These buyers, too, are getting better deals on
mortgage rates — thanks to financing incentives from homebuilders.

Still, builders can’t solve the entire inventory shortage plaguing the market
as they continue to face construction headwinds.

===== Buyers turn to new construction =====

There were 433,000 new homes for sale by the end of April, up slightly from
432,000 in March. That represents 7.6 months of supply at the current sales
rate — down from 7.9 months in March.

The lack of inventory on the existing home side — due largely to the mortgage
rate trap — has given builders an edge, Robert Dietz, chief economist for the
National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), told Yahoo Finance. In March
33%
of homes listed for sale were new homes in various stages of construction,
when typically the share from 2000 to 2019 was 12.7%.

“We have less than three months of resale inventory, and with interest rates
where they are, [prospective buyers] are gonna have to increasingly look at
new construction, because of that lack of recent inventory,” Dietz said.

Builders have also sped up the development of new homes. For instance,
construction of new U.S. homes increased in April, reversing March’s drop,
according to government data released last week. Housing starts and permits
for single-family homes both increased month over month.

A construction worker works on the frame of a new home being built in a
housing development on the west edge of town in Las Vegas. (Credit: Julie
Jacobson, AP Photo)

The median sales price of new houses sold in April was $420,800, down from
$455,800 the month prior.

To further help with affordability, builders have been offering discounts on
mortgage rates through their financing arms, a big advantage they have over
regular home sellers. For instance, earlier this year Pulte offered a 30-year
mortgage rate of 4.25% for qualified homes under construction when the
average
rate on a 30-year mortgage ranged from 6.09% to 6.73%.

"We’ve had a national mortgage rate buydown program in effect since the
beginning of the year. And what we’ve been able to do is use that as another
selling tool," PulteGroup CFO Pablo Shaughnessy said last month on the
company's earnings call. "And so for some people, it’s 'hey, get my rate as
low as you can get it.'"

A home under construction stands behind a "sold" sign in a new development in
York County, South Carolina, U.S. (Credit: Lucas Jackson, REUTERS)

===== Inventory challenges remain =====

Though the sale of new homes increased in April, disruptions in production
may still threaten to limit those gains.

"We are continuing to work with our trade partners and suppliers to reduce
our construction costs on new home starts," D.R. Horton CFO Bill Wheat said
last month on the company's earnings call. "We are making some limited
progress in these efforts, but are also still experiencing some cost
increases
due to the overall inflationary environment."

High construction costs, material supply chain disruptions, and tightening
credit conditions on construction loans brought on by recent banking failures
in the U.S. are a challenge to new construction, the National Association of
Home Builders said.

“The challenge for the industry continues to be the housing shortage,” Dietz
said. “It’s a challenge that stretches all the way back to the Great
Recession
and was supercharged during the COVID pandemic because we saw interest rates
go down so low. We need to build more to improve that deficit.”

Gabriella is a personal finance reporter at Yahoo Finance. Follow her on
Twitter @__gabriellacruz.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://finance.yahoo.com/news/homebuyers-gobble-up-new-homes-in-april-amid-inventory-shortages-141151978.html

LICENSE: © 2023 Yahoo. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Homebuyers gobble up new homes in April amid inventory shortages
