
[1] Read Details

Photo Illustration by Luis G. Rendon/The Daily Beast/Disney/Warner
Bros/Universal/A24

This year has already brought us a number of big blockbuster movies—from
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 to The Super Mario Bros. Movie—and we’re not
even halfway through the calendar yet. As summer approaches, get ready for
some of the most exciting titles of the year.

Certainly you’ve heard of buzzy titles like Barbie and Oppenheimer (which
release on the same day in July). But did you know that A24 is releasing a
freaky horror movie about a phantom hand? Or that Wes Anderson is coming out
with an alien sci-fi film? It’s also a fantastic summer for animation, which
will see the release of a new Pixar flick, another entry in the Spiderverse
series, and an exciting new installment of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

The MCU is taking a moment to catch its breath this summer until The Marvels
releases in November, but if you’re looking for superheroes, there are some
outside of the multiverse coming to the big screen. There’s Spiderverse, of
course, but then there’s also Blue Beetle. Indiana Jones and the Dial of
Destiny feels a little bit like a superhero situation, too, or even Mission:
Impossible—if you see Harrison Ford and Tom Cruise as the action legends they
are.

From Flamin’ Hot Cheetos to sexually-charged talking dogs, here are the
biggest titles to look forward to this summer.

===== The Little Mermaid — May 26 =====

Disney’s live-action adaptation of one of their most beloved animated films
has been contentious for all the wrong reasons. (Halle Bailey being cast as
Ariel is a stroke of genius, the CGI team putting Flounder on the South Beach
Diet is not!). But despite all of the unwarranted controversy, The Little
Mermaid is due to be a major theatrical draw, bringing together nostalgic
parents who now have kids of their own to share the classic story with. The
new songs might not hit quite as hard, and the movie is stuffed to the gills
and a bit overlong, but there is something for everyone to admire in the
film,
which is less of a retelling and more of an awe-inspiring expansion. —Coleman
Spilde

===== Past Lives — June 2 =====

Celine Song’s directorial debut blew Sundance away earlier this year, wowing
audiences with a stunning portrayal of the effect a first love has on the
rest
of one’s life. Nora (Greta Lee) and Hae Sung (Teo Yoo) were childhood
sweethearts—but when Nora’s family immigrated from South Korea to America,
they lost touch. After reconnecting and falling apart once more, Nora and Hae
Sung get one more chance to see what might have been—if Nora didn’t marry a
New York writer, which prevents them from having any further connection.
—Fletcher Peters

===== Spider-Man: Across the Spiderverse — June 2 =====

The sequel to 2018’s fan-favorite animated Spidey flick arrives after a long
wait—but this is just the first half of the two-part sequel. Miles Morales is
thrust into another multiverse-traversing journey, tasked with preventing the
universes from utter destruction. This adventure reunites him with his myriad
arachnid-infused counterparts, yet not all of them are so happy to see
teenage
Miles. Expect action and some serious emotional stakes this time around too.
—Allegra Frank

===== Flamin’ Hot — June 9 =====

The true story behind the creation of the Flamin’ Hot Cheetos is surprisingly
controversial. This film portrays a popular urban legend, about the man who
dreamed up the beloved snack while working at the Cheetos’ factory. While
there are plenty of skeptics as to whether Richard Montañez, a janitor,
actually whipped up the spicier cheese puff on the job, this story of a
person
of color outsmarting the white corporate world seems compellingly
inspirational. It’s also Eva Longoria’s directorial debut, making it more
intriguing. —AF

===== Elemental — June 16 =====

Whether it be toys, fish, cars, bugs, or human emotions and our eternal
souls: you name it, Pixar has animated it to heart-wrenching effect. Next up,
the studio is crafting an unlikely love story out of the four earthly
elements: Water, fire, land, and air. Set in Element City, where the elements
coexist in the same ecosystem, Ember (Leah Lewis), a fire resident, and Wade
(Mamoudou Athie), a water resident, become a pair of star-crossed lovers, to
the dismay of their families, who think it’ll never work. Think a Romeo &
Juliet spin, but with more third-degree burns instead of daggers. —CS

===== Asteroid City — June 16 =====

No one can do Wes Anderson like Wes Anderson—certainly not those abhorrent
and garish AI-prompted trailers going around Twitter, which understand
neither
the charm nor the intent of the director’s style. Anderson returns this
summer
to prove that with his latest film, seeped in his signature style, and just
as
typically loaded with stars. Asteroid City finds the townspeople of the
titular hovel, already the sight of an asteroid landing hundreds of years
prior, marveling at a new extraterrestrial event: an alien invasion. It’s the
perfect film to match our times. If some little green men marched off a
flying
saucer today, surely a good portion of us would respond with sardonic
cynicism, too. —CS

===== No Hard Feelings — June 23 =====

Real comedy is back, baby! Somewhere in the mid-2010s, we broke away from the
horned up sex farces like Easy A and Superbad that brought us together for
raunchy laughs, and traded them for a slew of prestige films. Well, Jennifer
Lawrence is done with all of that, spitting in the face of reputable cinema
to
lead a comedy all about a woman hired by a newly legal teens’ parents, to get
their son to break out of his shell. No Hard Feelings promises plenty of
cursing, more euphemisms than you can count, and glorious debauchery all
around. Huzzah! —CS

===== Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny — June 30 =====

Harrison Ford returns as our beloved Indiana Jones in The Dial of Destiny,
which sees James Mangold taking over Steven Spielberg’s classic Lucasfilm
adventure saga. Joined by ally Phoebe Waller-Bridge and foe Mads Mikkelsen,
Indy sets off to save yet another artifact from landing in the wrong hands.
He’s fought Nazis, cults, and even Sean Connery—who played his father—so what
can’t Indiana Jones do? With the whip and that classic theme song, he’ll
probably be unstoppable once more in this new chapter. —FP

===== Joy Ride — July 7 =====

Stephanie Hsu follows up her Oscar-nominated turn in Everything Everywhere
All at Once with this road trip comedy, which premiered at SXSW in March to
strong reviews. Hsu plays the friend of Ashley Park, who plays Audrey, a
transracial adoptee in search of her birth mother. Along with her cousin and
two best friends (including Hsu), Audrey heads to China to find her roots—but
gets into tons of over-the-top, uproarious, very R-rated antics along the
way.
—AF

===== Mission: Impossible — Dead Reckoning Part One — July 11 =====

After several delays, the seventh Mission: Impossible film arrives this
summer. As is the style at this time, it’s the first part of a two-part
story.
But after the series’ five-year break following 2018’s widely acclaimed
Mission: Impossible — Fallout, fans will take the new global super-spy action
wherever they can get it. And as always: Cruise — he’s doing his own stunts.
—AF

===== Theater Camp — July 14 =====

Were you a theater kid? I was. I remember feeling my stomach sink every
moment a cast list was pinned to the school’s bulletin board, the passive
aggressiveness of friends auditioning for similar roles, and the ultimate
bliss that followed each performance. Theater Camp aims to recreate that
feeling, but in a classic Christopher Guest mockumentary format. Actors Ben
Platt (Pitch Perfect) and Molly Gordon (Booksmart), who also directs, star as
two stuck-up theater camp alumni who have taken over production and brought
it
nearly to hell. —FP

===== Oppenheimer — July 21 =====

Christopher Nolan’s highly anticipated drama Oppenheimer has been on
everyone’s minds for two reasons: its three-hour runtime, and its courage in
going up against the biggest movie of the summer (next on our list). But
based
on its trailer, Oppenheimer looks to be up to the challenge, with a searing
lead performance from Cillian Murphy, who plays J. Robert Oppenheimer, the
physicist who became known as the “father of the atomic bomb.” Murphy wears
his character’s sallow expression like a glove as he contests with the sins
of
his creations. And though we know how history plays out, seeing how Nolan
connects a not-so-distant past to our current climate will be one of the most
unsettling experiences of the year. (And not just because it’ll be hard to
hold that large Diet Coke for 180 minutes). —CS

===== Barbie — July 21 =====

Hot Girl Summer returns, and this year, it’s neon-colored. Margot Robbie
plays a real-life version of the fantastically plastic icon, decked out in as
much pink as possible. She’s joined by several other Barbies, played by
everyone from Dua Lipa to Kate McKinnon. And there will be plenty of Kens
too,
including Ryan Gosling and Simu Liu. The sumptuous first teaser doesn’t offer
much in the way of actual story, but no matter: Greta Gerwig’s never hit a
bum
note yet, and her third directorial effort looks to be as uniquely lovable as
we’d hope. —AF

===== Haunted Mansion — July 28 =====

This is the second film based on the beloved Disney Parks ride, and it comes
with a much more star-studded cast than Eddie Murphy’s version from the early
2000s. This time, Owen Wilson is joined by Lakeith Stanfield, Jamie Lee
Curtis, and Jared Leto, in this story of a group of humans going up against
some goofy ghosts and ghouls. —AF

===== Talk to Me — July 28 =====

A24 has quite a reputation with horror movies. Directors like Ari Aster,
Robert Eggers, and Ti West have found massive success with the distribution
company, which has also released titles like Bodies Bodies Bodies and In
Fabric. Could Talk to Me be A24’s next big success? The Australian
supernatural horror movie follows a group of friends who seize control of an
embalmed hand (ah!) and become addicted to using it for tricks (yikes!),
until
they push things too far and big new terrors haunt them (no thanks!). The
film
premiered at Sundance earlier this year, and some audience members say they
still sleep with their lights on. (Kidding. Or am I?) —FP

===== Meg 2: The Trench — Aug. 4 =====

Turn off all the noise around you and listen closely. If you tune everything
out, you can hear the chants of the shark fans, growing louder by the day:
“Meg! Meg! Meg!” Well, maybe that’s just me, but the sequel to 2018’s The Meg
is, without a doubt, the summer’s hottest B-movie. Meg 2 solves a major
problem of The Meg, which was that there was simply not enough Meg! Meg is,
of
course, short for megalodon, the giant prehistoric shark that found its way
out of a deep sea ocean trench into populated waters in the first film. Turns
out, there are more megs! And this time, there are other prehistoric friends
along for the ride too. A megalodon and an impossibly large squid? Sorry, but
Barbie’s got some box office competition. —CS

===== Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem — Aug. 4 =====

Hear me out: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles may not sound like the most
glamorous franchise in the entertainment industry. As someone who plans on
wearing hot pink in honor of Barbie this summer, I may not be the demographic
you’d expect to see at Mutant Mayhem. But one trailer had me hooked. The
animation looks as dazzling as Spider-Man: Across the Spiderverse, with an
ensemble cast for the ages: Rose Byrne, Giancarlo Esposito, Jackie Chan, Paul
Rudd, Seth Rogen, Ayo Edebiri, and more. I can’t believe I’m saying this, but
count me in! —FP

===== Blue Beetle — Aug. 18 =====

The DC Cinematic Universe continues to be an utter mess, for those who care
about following along with the core storyline. This is one of the last movies
in the pipeline developed before James Gunn and Peter Safran took over the
studio last fall—which means it most likely doesn’t have any bearing on the
future films based on the beloved comic book characters. But all of that
canon
nonsense is irrelevant to people who just want to watch a fun movie, which
Blue Beetle very well could be. For one, it’s history-making, as the first
superhero film with a Latino lead. And its titular superhero is extremely
wacky: Jaime Reyes, who combines with a magical scarab and gains a powerful
exoskeleton. —AF

===== Strays — Aug. 18 =====

Strays might be an odd choice for a movie we’re anticipating for the summer,
considering the trailer looks godawful. Now, I’m not looking forward to this
in the same way I’m excited for Barbie or Oppenheimer. I’m gearing up for the
worst movie of 2023. A la Ted, this raunchy flick follows a lovable beast (a
pet dog) as he comes-of-age and gets horny. Sounds terrible. But I’m also
looking forward to the deep sighs, the guttural groans, and the tears of
cringe this movie will bring me. Heartbreak feels good in a place like this,
right? —FP

===== Bottoms — Aug. 25 =====

Courtesy of Warner Bros.

Bottoms reteams Shiva Baby director Emma Seligman with its star Rachel
Sennott for a wild and outrageous romp through the world’s most hormonal high
school. Sennott plays PJ, a young woman who teams up with her best friend,
Josie (Ayo Edebiri), to start a young women’s fight club, that’s really just
a
way for them to try to get closer to their crushes. Bottoms juggles satire
with straight comedy, and throws in a dash of bloody violence for a
laugh-a-minute ride that has to be seen to be believed. Trust me, the SXSW
premiere of the movie elicited just as many gasps as it did cackles. Bottoms
is the perfect way to close out the summer on a high note, and be grateful
that another year of high school isn’t ahead of you. —CS



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.thedailybeast.com/obsessed/summer-movie-preview-2023-20-most-exciting-films

LICENSE: © 2023 The Daily Beast Company LLC

=========================================


$
[B:t] Summer Movie Preview 2023: 20 Most Exciting Films
