
[1] Read Details

Foo Fighters Reveal New Drummer Josh Freese, Taylor Hawkins’ Successor

Josh Freese, August 2021 (Andrew Toth/Getty Images for iHeartMedia)

Following the death of Hawkins in 2022, the prolific session percussionist
performed with the band during a livestream event

By Evan Minsker

Foo Fighters have announced that their new drummer is Josh Freese. Freese, a
session drummer who recently played with the Offspring, follows in the
footsteps of the band’s beloved late percussionist, Taylor Hawkins, who died
last year. The band revealed the news on Sunday (May 21) during the
livestream
Foo Fighters: Preparing Music for Concerts, a studio session recorded at the
group’s 606 studios in Northridge, California.

Not including Dave Grohl, Freese is the third drummer to join Foo Fighters;
before Hawkins, William Goldsmith performed on the band’s 1997 album, The
Colour and Shape.

The livestream opened with an extended bit where Foo Fighters teased that
famous drummers would join the lineup. Chad Smith of Red Hot Chili Peppers (a
friend of the late Hawkins) showed up to say he was being blocked in by a
different car outside the studio. Mötley Crüe’s Tommy Lee popped in to
deliver
some takeout for the band. Tool’s Danny Carey showed up to drop off some dogs
he apparently groomed for the group. The camera finally panned over to
Freese,
who expressed frustration that they hadn’t already started rehearsing.

Freese is a prolific session and touring drummer. As a session musician, he
recently played on the new M83 and 100 gecs albums. Over the past decade,
he’s
contributed to new records by Lana Del Rey, Rob Zombie, Bruce Springsteen, A
Perfect Circle, Sting (with Shaggy), and many more. He’s toured and recorded
with Danny Elfman, was a member of Devo’s recent live lineups, and, in the
past, has been a member of Guns N’ Roses, Nine Inch Nails, the Vandals,
Weezer, and Sublime With Rome. His credits include the Evanescence hit “Bring
Me to Life,” Meredith Brooks’ “Bitch,” Good Charlotte’s “The Anthem,” and
Puddle of Mudd’s “She Hates Me.” During the livestream, Freese spoke with
Grohl about covering Top 40 hits in a band at Disneyland when he was 12.

Hawkins died at age 50 while on tour with Foo Fighters last year in Bogotá,
Colombia. They canceled their remaining shows. The band returned to the stage
for two all-star Hawkins tribute shows at the end of 2022. Freese performed
with the band during those shows, and, in a social media post, he said he
specifically requested to play Hawkins’ kit.

“Without hesitation I said ‘Taylor’s drums need to be up there and I want to
play on his exact set up,” he wrote. “I want THAT energy to be up on THAT
stage. I want to sweat all over the same drums he was sweating all over every
night...don't change a thing.”

Freese and Hawkins didn’t grow up knowing each other, but had a connection as
Orange County guys: “We always had that funny little bond and he’d always
remind me that he was tired of hearing about ‘that other young guy from OC
who
was already making records and touring’ when he was a teenager. I’d then ask
him if he wanted to trade bank accounts with me, LOL! Fuck man, the whole
thing sucks. He would’ve loved that show more than anyone though. ❤️.”



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://pitchfork.com/news/foo-fighters-reveal-new-drummer-josh-freese-taylor-hawkins-successor/

LICENSE: © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Foo Fighters Reveal New Drummer Josh Freese, Taylor Hawkins’ Successor | Pitchfork
