
[1] Read Details

• 7 min read

(Getty Images)

The 24 Hours of Le Mans race, a true test of endurance, began in 1923. One
hundred years later, the event continues to grow.

While the race hasn't taken place every year in the past century (it was
suspended during World War II), it remains a staple of the motor racing
calendar. It also remains a challenge unlike any other.

The track spans 8.46 miles and is made up of primary public roads that are
closed for the event. Each car will have a team of drivers who will handle
racing duties.

One interesting wrinkle in this year's race is an entry in the Garage 56
class. NASCAR legend Jimmie Johnson is one of the three drivers for the
Hendrick Motorsports team. The entry marks NASCAR's first involvement in the
24 Hours of Le Mans since 1976.

MORE: Why LeBron James is honorary starter for 24 Hours of Le Mans

The Sporting News is tracking live results and class leaders from the 2023 24
Hours of Le Mans race. Follow along with the results as they come in.

===== How to watch 24 Hours of Le Mans 2023 =====

The 24 Hours of Le Mans race will start at 10 a.m. ET on Saturday and end at
10 a.m. ET on Sunday.

Motortrend TV and Motortrend+ will carry live coverage of the 2023 24 Hours
of Le Mans race in the United States. A subscription to Motortrend+ costs
$4.99 per month, but there is a seven-day free trial. Viewers can also find
the race on Fubo, which carries Motortrend TV in the U.S. and also offers a
free trial.

Discovery Velocity holds the rights to the 24 Hours of Le Mans broadcast in
Canada.

MORE: Watch 24 Hours of Le Mans with Fubo in U.S. (free trial)

===== Le Mans 2023: Class leaders =====

Live standings for 24 Hours of Le Mans can be found here. Class leaders will
be updated below regularly during the race.

Last update: 8 a.m. ET

Hypercar

LMP2

LM GTE Am

===== Le Mans 2023: Standings =====

Click here for full live standings of 24 Hours of Le Mans.

Last update: 8 a.m. ET.

===== 24 Hours of Le Mans 2023: Qualifying results =====

The 62-car field for this year's 24 Hours of Le Mans is divided into four
classes: 16 cars in Hypercar, 24 cars in LMP2, 21 cars in LMGTE Am, and one
car in Garage 56.

Here are the starting positions after Thursday's hyperpole. The list of
driver trios for each team can be found here.

Author(s)

Dan Treacy is a content producer for Sporting News.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.sportingnews.com/us/motorsport/news/24-hours-le-mans-live-results-class-winners-standings-2023/xxmyy3pfur86xpayaoiosz6w

LICENSE: Copyright © 2023 Sporting News Holdings Limited. All rights
reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] 24 Hours of Le Mans live results, class winners, standings for 2023 race | Sporting News
