
[1] Read Details

01:50

Gujarat Titans beat Mumbai Indians to reach IPL final

Read Also

Shubman Gill's prolific run in IPL 2023 landed him a third century of the
season on Friday, when his 60-ball 129 took Gujarat Titans to their second
consecutive IPL final with a 62-run win over Mumbai Indians in Ahmedabad.

1/15

Show Captions

<p>Red-hot Shubman Gill smashed his third century of the IPL season to help
defending champions Gujarat Titans hammer Mumbai Indians by 62 runs on Friday
and set up a final against Chennai Super Kings. </p>

<p>Gill's 126 off 60 balls powered Gujarat to 233/3, a total they defended by
bowling out five-time winners Mumbai for 171 in 18.2 overs in Qualifier 2
which started late due to rain in Ahmedabad. </p>

<p>Gill hit 10 sixes in his knock and put on a second-wicket stand of 138
with Sai Sudharsan (43), to tear into the MI attack. </p>

<p>Gill became the leading batsman this season with 851 runs, surpassing RCB
skipper Faf du Plessis (730), before he reached his IPL best and the top
score
of this season. </p>

<p>Opener Gill made the most of a reprieve on 30 when Tim David dropped him
off Chris Jordan. </p>

<p>The 23-year-old Gill brought up his fifty in 32 balls and then exploded to
smash sixes and reach his hundred in 49 balls. </p>

<p>Gill finally fell to Akash Madhwal and Sudharsan retired out before
skipper Hardik Pandya (28*), and Rashid Khan finished the innings with 19
runs
in the final over. </p>

<p>Mumbai's worries increased when Ishan Kishan was injured by team-mate
Jordan's elbow and was later replaced by concussion substitute Vishnu Vinod.
</p>

<p>Mohit Sharma took five wickets for Gujarat after a valiant 61 by
Suryakumar Yadav. </p>

<p>Tilak Varma struck 43 off 14 balls as he smashed Mohammed Shami for four
fours and a six in an over but was soon bowled by Rashid. </p>

<p>Suryakumar put on a key 51-run stand with Cameron Green, who hit 30 in a
stop-start innings after being hit on the elbow by Pandya. </p>

<p>Suryakumar made his fifty in 33 balls but was bowled by Mohit, who struck
twice in one over to derail the innings. </p>

<p>Rashid trapped Tim David lbw for two and hopes ended for Mumbai, who last
won the trophy in 2020. </p>

<p>The final will be played on Sunday at the same venue between four-time
champions Chennai Super Kings and defending champions Gujarat Titans. </p>

Read Also

After Mumbai Indians' exit from IPL 2023, Rohit Sharma will now focus on
leading India in the World Test Championship final against Australia next
month, and he hopes that Gujarat Titans' superstar Shubman Gill carries his
rich vein of form to the big game in London.

Read Also

One of the hottest properties in international cricket currently, Shubman
Gill has raised the bar with his prolific run in IPL 2023 and his century on
Friday, which put Gujarat Titans into the final, has been lauded by his
skipper Hardik Pandya as "one of the finest" he has ever seen in a T20 game.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://m.timesofindia.com/sports/cricket/ipl/top-stories/destined-for-greatness-shubman-gill-sure-fits-the-bill/articleshow/100548192.cms

LICENSE: Copyright Â© 2023 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Destined for greatness? Shubman Gill sure fits the bill | Cricket News - Times of India
