
[1] Read Details

By Alli Rosenbloom, CNN

Updated 5:10 PM EDT, Sun May 21, 2023

Josh Freese performs with The Offspring at the iHeartRadio theater in
Burbank, California, in August.

CNN —

The Foo Fighters have found their new drummer after the sudden death of their
longtime friend and drummer Taylor Hawkins.

During the “Foo Fighters: Preparing Music for Concerts” livestream event that
previewed the group’s 11th studio album, “But Here We Are,” on Sunday, the
band introduced studio drummer Josh Freese as Hawkins’ successor.

Freese is a veteran drummer and has played with Nine Inch Nails, The
Offspring, Sting and Weezer, among many others. He also played with the Foo
Fighters during a London tribute show for Hawkins in 2022, even playing on
the
late drummer’s very own drum kit.

According to a post on his Instagram page showcasing a photo of Hawkins’ drum
set, Freese said he insisted playing the drums set for the London tribute
show, saying “I want THAT energy to be up on THAT stage.”

In the same post, Freese reflected on his friendship with Hawkins, saying the
two often bonded on how they felt like they “were the only 2 guys from
(Orange
County) in the room.”

(From left) Nate Mendel, Taylor Hawkins, Dave Grohl, Pat Smear,
Chris Shiflett and Rami Jaffee of the Foo Fighters at the Rock & Roll Hall Of
Fame Induction Ceremony in Ohio in October 2021.

Hawkins died in March of 2022 at 50 years old while on tour in Colombia.

In January, the Foo Fighters shared that they planed to continue on as a
band, saying, “Without Taylor, we never would have become the band that we
were — and without Taylor, we know that we’re going to be a different band
going forward.”

“And we know that when we see you again — and we will soon — he’ll be there
in spirit with all of us every night.”

They announced in April that they plan to release a new album, “But Here We
Are” on June 2, saying the album comes “following a year of staggering
losses,
personal introspection and bittersweet remembrances.”

The Foo Fighters kick off a summer tour on May 24 in New Hampshire.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.cnn.com/2023/05/21/entertainment/foo-fighters-drummer-josh-freese/index.html

LICENSE: © 2023 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All
Rights Reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Foo Fighters announce Josh Freese as new drummer after death of Taylor Hawkins | CNN
