
[1] Read Details

The US says it will allow its Western allies to supply Ukraine with advanced
fighter jets, including American-made F-16s, in a major boost for Kyiv.

National security adviser Jake Sullivan said President Joe Biden "informed
his G7 counterparts" of the decision at the bloc's summit in Japan on Friday.

US troops will also train Kyiv's pilots to use the jets, Mr Sullivan said.

Russia said countries would run "enormous risks" if they supplied F-16s to
Ukraine, state media reported.

Deputy foreign minister Alexander Grushko told state-owned news agency Tass
that Western countries were "sticking to the scenario of escalation".

"This will be taken into account in all our plans, and we have all the
necessary means to achieve our goals," he said.

Ukraine has long sought advanced jets and President Volodymyr Zelensky hailed
the move as a "historic decision".

Countries can only resell or re-export American military hardware if the US
approves it, so this decision clears the way for other nations to send their
existing stocks of F-16s to Ukraine.

Although it seems increasingly likely that Ukraine will eventually receive
the advanced jets it so desperately wants, no government has so far confirmed
it will send them to Kyiv.

The US and allies had so far "focussed on providing Ukraine with the systems
weapon and training it needs to conduct offensive operations this spring and
summer", Mr Sullivan told reporters in Hiroshima, saying the moves were part
of Washington's "long-term commitment to Ukraine's self-defence".

"As the training unfolds in the coming months, we will work with our allies
to determine when planes will be delivered, who will be delivering them, and
how many."

Ukraine has repeatedly lobbied its Western allies to provide jets to help in
its fight against Russia.

Ahead of Saturday's official announcement, President Zelensky said the jets
would "greatly enhance our army in the sky".

He said he looked forward to "discussing the practical implementation" of the
plan at the G7 summit in Hiroshima, where he arrived on Saturday.

The US had been sceptical about providing Ukraine with modern fighter jets -
at least in the near term. Its focus has instead been on providing military
support on land.

Some Nato member countries have expressed worries that handing jets to
Ukraine would be viewed as escalating the war, risking a direct confrontation
with Russia.

Senior US military officials were previously sceptical about the ability of
Western-supplied fighter jets to dramatically alter the conflict - there are
lots of air defence systems on the ground, and Russia's large air force has
struggled to gain air superiority.

In February, President Biden told reporters that he was "ruling out for now"
sending advanced fighters to Ukraine.

But Mr Sullivan told reporters that the US had provided weapons to Kyiv as
they were needed on the battlefield, and the decision to pave the way for
fighter jets indicated the conflict had entered a new phase.

"Now we have delivered everything we said we were going to deliver, so we put
the Ukrainians in a position to make progress on the battlefield through the
counteroffensive. We've reached a moment where it is time to look down the
road, and say what is Ukraine going to need as part of a future force to
defend against Russian aggression," he said.

Mr Sullivan also indicated any jets Ukraine received would only be used for
defence purposes, and that the US would neither enable nor support attacks on
Russian territory.

"The Ukrainians have consistently indicated that they are prepared to follow
through on that," he said.

While the change in US policy is significant, training pilots to fly F-16
jets will take time.

Ukraine has more trained fighter pilots than aircraft at present, but even
training experienced fighter pilots on a new plane could take up to four
months.

Nations will also need to agree to supply the jets.

The F-16 is widely used by a number of European and Middle East nations as
well as the US, which still manufactures the aircraft.

The UK, Netherlands, Belgium and Denmark also welcomed the US move.

UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak tweeted: "The UK will work together with the
USA and the Netherlands, Belgium and Denmark to get Ukraine the combat air
capability it needs."

The UK does not have any F-16s in its air force itself.

Denmark has announced it too will now be able to support the training of
pilots, but did not confirm whether it would send any jets to Ukraine.
Denmark's air force has 40 F-16s, around 30 of which are operational.

Earlier this week, Mr Sunak and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said they
would build an "international coalition" to provide fighter jet support for
Ukraine.

Mr Sunak said the UK would set up a flight school to train Ukrainian pilots.
French leader Emmanuel Macron said his country was willing to do the same but
would not provide jets.

Some of the opposition to sending the jets has centred around maintenance
issues, with former Nato official Dr Jamie Shea saying they require extensive
maintenance after almost every fight.

At the start of Russia's full-scale invasion, Ukraine was believed to have
around 120 combat capable aircraft - mainly consisting of aging Soviet-era
MiG-29s and Su-27s.

But officials say they need up to 200 jets to match Moscow's air-power -
which is thought to be five or six times greater than Kyiv's.

Mr Zelensky has primarily been asking its allies for F-16s. First built in
the 1970s, the jet can travel at twice the speed of sound and can engage
targets in the air or on the ground.

While now eclipsed by the more modern F-35, it remains widely in use. Experts
say modern fighters like the F-16 would help Ukraine strike behind Russian
lines.

Earlier this year some Eastern European countries sent Soviet-era Mig fighter
jets to Ukraine.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-65649471

LICENSE: Â© 2023 BBC

=========================================


$
[B:t] F-16 fighter jets: Biden to let allies supply warplanes in major boost for Kyiv - BBC News
