
[1] Read Details

Shubman Gill is the latest prodigy of India's familial batting production
line. He shot to fame with 418 runs at an average of 104.50 in the 2018 ICC
U19 World Cup, where he served as Prithvi Shaw's deputy and batted at No. 3
to
play a crucial role in India's record fourth world title. Also the edition's
Player of the Tournament, Gill was a favourite in the 2018 IPL auctions and
was picked by Kolkata Knight Riders for INR 1.8 crore (USD 280,000). Born in
Fazilka, Punjab, Gill's precocious talents found an early fan in his father,
Lakhwinder Singh, who shifted base to Mohali and rented a place near the PCA
Stadium so that his son could grow up with better access to cricket. And it
wasn't long until Gill started grabbing headlines. He scored 351 in Punjab's
Inter-District U16 tournament in 2014, racking up an opening stand of 587
with
Nirmal Singh, and then went on to strike a double hundred in his U16 debut
for
Punjab at the 2016 Vijay Merchant Trophy. Gill made his List A debut for
Punjab in the 2016-17 Vijay Hazare Trophy, batting one-down, and went on to
make his first-class debut in the 2017-18 Ranji Trophy against Bengal, where
he batted as an opener to score his maiden half-century and stepped it up in
just the next game with a maiden hundred against Services. Gill won the BCCI
award for the Best Junior Cricketer for consecutive years in 2013-14 and
2014-15, knocking hard on the doors of the U19 team. When picked, Gill
starred
in India's handsome 3-1 win at home over England in the Youth ODIs, scoring
351 runs in 4 innings and then went on to match up to his high standards in
his first tour of England soon after. India whitewashed the hosts 5-0 and
Gill
top-scored again with 278 runs across 4 innings. Gill easily looked the best
batsman among his colleagues at the World Cup, comfortably overhauling even
Prithvi Shaw, the 18-year-old Mumbai batsman who had the media houses buzzing
with a whooping five first-class hundreds to his name. Gill's bottom-handed
technique, made fashionably successful by Virat Kohli among many others,
allowed him to play in a similar mould. He scored runs briskly, mixing quick
singles and doubles with powerful hits across the ground, and stood out as
much for his batting acumen as he did for his fielding prowess. Once back
from
the World Cup in New Zealand, Gill soon found himself returning to the
unglamorous grind, representing Punjab in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. He started
the tournament with modest scores of 25, 4 and 8 but soon recovered, flaying
a
match-winning 123 against a rampant Karnataka side. Strong showings in the
2018-19 domestic season meant that Gill was seamlessly transitioning into
being a senior India player. He even looked unnerved on the big stage of the
IPL, despite batting out of position for the Kolkata Knight Riders. 2019 has
turned out to be a potential career-turning year for the Punjab youngster who
first got picked for the ODIs in New Zealand where he also made his
international debut. With India facing the eternal number-four issue, many
felt Gill would be punted with the World Cup not far away but after a handful
of games (that too on extremely tough surfaces), he found himself out of the
squad. Of course, the selectors and he himself knew that age is on his side
and that his time would come. In the 2019 IPL, he batted in the top order and
on expected lines, managed to create a bigger impact. However, it’s his
exploits in red-ball cricket that’s convinced people of his completeness as a
batsman. By churning out runs for fun in his brief First-class career thus
far, Gill has now staked a claim for a spot across formats and has rightly
been picked as a back-up opener for the home Tests against South Africa
Although it's still early days, Gill's heady mix of passion, hard work and
genius promises to cultivate a career that should serve Indian cricket well
in
the times to come. Until then, it's a nervous wait time for Gill and the many
observers of cricket. Written by Pratyush Sinha and Hariprasad Sadanandan

Unfair to compare Gill with Sachin and Virat so early in his career - Gary
Kirsten

1d ago

Well-oiled Titans primed for long term dominance

May 31 2023

Another classical exhibition of Gill's six-hitting evolution

May 27 2023

Defending champions Gujarat Titans look to build on reputation

Mar 29 2023

Tuning in to Shubman Gill

Mar 11 2023

Gill ton, Kohli fifty headline India's strong reply

Mar 11 2023



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.cricbuzz.com/profiles/11808/shubman-gill

LICENSE: © 2023 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved

=========================================


$
[B:t] Shubman Gill Profile - ICC Ranking, Age, Career Info & Stats | Cricbuzz.com
