
[1] Read Details

Roy is a trusted family man who North Carolina families can count on.

Born and raised in Nash County, Roy attended public schools and worked
summers on the family farm before attending UNC-Chapel Hill on a Morehead
Scholarship.

His mother, Beverly Cooper, worked as a school teacher, and his father Roy
Cooper Jr. farmed and practiced law.

After earning a law degree from UNC, Roy returned home to Nash County to
practice law and, with his wife Kristin, raise three daughters – Hilary,
Natalie, and Claire.

Born and raised in Nash County, Roy attended public schools and worked
summers on the family farm before attending UNC-Chapel Hill on a Morehead
Scholarship.

His mother, Beverly Cooper, worked as a school teacher, and his father Roy
Cooper Jr. farmed and practiced law.

After earning a law degree from UNC, Roy returned home to Nash County to
practice law and, with his wife Kristin, raise three daughters – Hilary,
Natalie, and Claire.

Roy entered public service because he loves North Carolina and understands
the challenges facing our families and communities. At home, he served as a
Sunday School teacher and tutored in public schools. In the NC House and
Senate, Roy fought to increase teacher pay and reduce class sizes. He wrote
North Carolina’s first children’s health insurance initiative.

Roy believes every child in North Carolina deserves the same opportunities
that he had – and that he wants for his own daughters.

Roy entered public service because he loves North Carolina and understands
the challenges facing our families and communities. At home, he served as a
Sunday School teacher and tutored in public schools. In the NC House and
Senate, Roy fought to increase teacher pay and reduce class sizes. He wrote
North Carolina’s first children’s health insurance initiative.

Roy believes every child in North Carolina deserves the same opportunities
that he had – and that he wants for his own daughters.

===== Accomplishments =====

As governor of North Carolina, Roy has fought for good-paying jobs, strong
public schools, access to quality, affordable health care, and a safer and
more just North Carolina.

Roy has announced tens of thousands of new jobs across North Carolina,
including in North Carolina’s rural and economically distressed counties. He
has also created initiatives such as NC Job Ready, Finish Line Grants, and
Hometown Strong.

Governor Cooper worked with members of both parties to repeal HB2 to fight
discrimination and repair the damage to North Carolina’s economy and
reputation. His leadership put North Carolina back on a path to success and
opened the door for thousands of new jobs and the return of concerts, shows,
and major athletic events such as the NBA All-Star Game.

He has also issued Executive Orders prohibiting workplace discrimination and
establishing paid parental leave for 56,000 state employees, and launched a
Clean Energy Plan to create good-paying jobs, increase the use of renewable
energy, and fight climate change.

From his first day in office, Roy has fought for better teacher pay and
funding for our classrooms. He has pushed the Republican legislature to go
much farther than it wanted to go resulting in a 9.5% teacher raise since he
took office and an improvement in the national rankings. Under his
leadership,
North Carolina has expanded pre-kindergarten programs and re-established the
Teaching Fellows Program to recruit and support highly qualified teachers in
North Carolina.

Roy has worked across party lines to combat the opioid crisis in North
Carolina. He launched the state’s first Opioid Action Plan in 2017 and, as a
result, opioid prescriptions have dropped by 24 percent, emergency room
visits
for opioid misuse have declined by 10 percent and opioid related deaths have
decreased by 5 percent. He also serves on the national Commission on
Combating
Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis.

Roy has fought tirelessly for Medicaid expansion that would extend coverage
to half a million people, including families and veterans, without additional
state tax dollars. Medicaid expansion would also bring tens of thousands of
jobs to North Carolina, reduce the cost of private health insurance and keep
rural hospitals from closing their doors.

Together with the most diverse and qualified cabinet in the history of the
state, Roy has fought for a safer and more just Carolina. He issued an
Executive Order to make North Carolina the first state in the south to ban
state funding to any organization that engages in conversion therapy, a
scientifically dubious and dangerous practice that is harmful to the LGBTQ
community.

He has also led our state through devastating hurricanes and floods, saving
lives and helping to invest more than $3.2 billion in recovery to rebuild our
state stronger and smarter.

In 2000, Roy was elected Attorney General. As North Carolina’s top law
enforcement official, Roy protected families across the state. He cracked
down
on child predators, worked to increase penalties for drug dealers, and
oversaw
a sharp (30%) decrease in crime. Roy also prioritized consumer protection,
and
fought to keep utility rates low, putting predatory lenders out of business
and cracking down on telemarketers.

Roy is a die-hard Carolina Hurricanes and North Carolina Tar Heels fan.

Join Roy in his fight for North Carolina

===== Join Roy in his fight for North Carolina =====

Cooper for North Carolina PO Box 1190, Raleigh, NC 27602

[email protected] Privacy Policy

Paid for by Cooper for North Carolina



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://roycooper.com/meet-roy/

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Meet Roy - Roy Cooper for North Carolina Governor
