
[1] Read Details

Introducing

Welcome to the era of spatial computing.

Apple Vision Pro seamlessly blends digital content with your physical space.

You navigate simply by using your eyes, hands, and voice.

So you can do the things you love in ways never before possible.

You’ve never seen everything like this before.

===== Apple Vision Pro =====

Available early next year in the U.S.

===== Apple Vision Pro Gallery =====

A singular piece of three-dimensionally formed laminated glass flows into an
aluminum alloy frame that gently curves to wrap around your face.

An array of advanced cameras and sensors work together to let you see the
world clearly, understand your environment, and detect hand input.

Speakers are positioned close to your ears, delivering rich Spatial Audio
that seamlessly blends with real-world sounds.

The Head Band provides cushioning, breathability, and stretch. The Fit Dial
lets you adjust Vision Pro precisely to your head.

A pair of custom micro‑OLED displays deliver more pixels than a 4K TV to each
eye — for stunning clarity.

The Light Seal gently conforms to your face, delivering a precise fit while
blocking out stray light.

Press the Digital Crown to bring up the Home View, and turn it to control
your level of immersion while using Environments.

Press the top button to take spatial videos and spatial photos in the moment.

The external battery supports up to 2 hours of use, and all‑day use when
plugged in.1

Click or tap each tab to explore Apple Vision Pro.

===== Apps =====

Free your desktop. And your apps will follow.

With Vision Pro, you have an infinite canvas that transforms how you use the
apps you love. Arrange apps anywhere and scale them to the perfect size,
making the workspace of your dreams a reality — all while staying present in
the world around you. Browse the web in Safari, create a to-do list in Notes,
chat in Messages, and seamlessly move between them with a glance.

Vision Pro has the familiar apps you know and love — transformed to live in
your space. Like Safari, Photos, Music, and Messages. And with iCloud, your
content is automatically synced with your iPhone, iPad, and Mac.

A brand‑new App Store will launch with Vision Pro, featuring groundbreaking
apps built for visionOS, as well as compatible iPad and iPhone apps.

Environments magically transform your surroundings with stunning landscapes,
letting apps grow beyond the dimensions of your room, and creating the
perfect
place to focus.

Vision Pro brings 3D objects to life. You can pull a 3D object out of an app
and look at it from every angle, as if it’s right in front of you.

Bring your Mac wirelessly into Vision Pro with Mac Virtual Display. You can
place it anywhere in space and use Vision Pro as an enormous, private,
portable 4K display.

Vision Pro works with Bluetooth accessories like Magic Keyboard and Magic
Trackpad, which are great for things like complex spreadsheets and long
emails.

Apps can expand fully into your space, like during a Mindfulness session,
where you can create a private moment of calm.

===== Entertainment =====

The ultimate theater. Wherever you are.

Vision Pro can transform any room into your own personal theater. Expand your
movies, shows, and games up to the perfect size while feeling like you’re
part
of the action with Spatial Audio. And with more pixels than a 4K TV for each
eye, you can enjoy stunning content wherever you are — whether that’s a long
flight or the couch at home.

Turn your room into a personal movie theater with the Cinema Environment.
Enjoy shows and movies at the frame rate and aspect ratio the filmmaker
intended with immersive Spatial Audio. Or use a majestic Environment like Mt.
Hood to make your screen feel 100 feet wide.

All‑new Apple Immersive Videos are 180-degree 3D 8K recordings captured with
Spatial Audio — putting you right inside the action and transporting you to
places you’ve never been.

Your favorite movies and TV shows from Apple TV+ and other streaming services
are available on Vision Pro.

visionOS games in Apple Arcade offer completely new ways to play by using the
space around you. Find over 100 of your favorite iPad games, and also play
using Bluetooth game controllers.

===== Photos and Videos =====

Be in the moment. All over again.

Vision Pro is Apple’s first 3D camera. You can capture magical spatial photos
and spatial videos in 3D, then relive those cherished moments like never
before with immersive Spatial Audio. Your existing library of photos and
videos looks incredible at remarkable scale. And panoramas wrap around you —
making you feel like you’re standing right where you took them.

The top button makes it quick and easy to capture spatial videos or photos.

When you’re capturing a spatial video or photo, Vision Pro makes it clear to
those around you that you’re recording.

Spatial videos and photos have incredible depth that lets you see into a
moment. Expand them to get even closer to your favorite memories.

===== Connection =====

Get on the same page. In the same space.

Vision Pro makes it easy to collaborate and connect wherever you are.
FaceTime video tiles are life-size, and as new people join, the call simply
expands in your room. Within FaceTime, you can also use apps to collaborate
with colleagues on the same documents simultaneously.

In FaceTime, each participant appears in your space within a tile that you
can adjust in scale. Spatial Audio makes the conversation feel more natural
by
placing each person’s voice in the location of their tile.

Your digital Persona allows others to see you while you’re wearing Vision
Pro. It’s a dynamic, natural representation of your face and hand movements
while you’re using FaceTime.

Share apps with others and use them together in FaceTime with SharePlay. You
continue to see everyone in large video tiles while sharing an app.

===== Design =====

Designed by Apple.

Apple Vision Pro is the result of decades of experience designing
high‑performance, mobile, and wearable devices — culminating in the most
ambitious product Apple has ever created. Vision Pro integrates incredibly
advanced technology into an elegant, compact form, resulting in an amazing
experience every time you put it on.

A singular piece of three-dimensionally formed laminated glass acts as an
optical surface for the cameras and sensors that view the world. It flows
seamlessly into a custom aluminum alloy frame that gently curves to wrap
around your face while serving as an attachment point for the Light Seal.

The Light Seal magnetically attaches to the aluminum alloy frame. It gently
flexes to conform to individual face shapes.

The Head Band is 3D knitted, creating a unique rib structure that provides
cushioning, breathability, and stretch.

Zeiss Optical Inserts can be customized with your vision prescription,2
magnetically attaching to the lenses for precise viewing and eye tracking.

An aluminum‑encased battery can be slipped into a pocket for portable power.
It connects using a woven braided cable.

===== visionOS =====

Apple’s first spatial operating system.

Built on the foundation of macOS, iOS, and iPadOS, visionOS enables powerful
spatial experiences. Control Vision Pro with your eyes, hands, and voice —
interactions feel intuitive and magical. Simply look at an element, tap your
fingers together to select, and use the virtual keyboard or dictation to
type.

In visionOS, apps can fill the space around you, beyond the boundaries of a
display. They can be moved anywhere, scaled to the perfect size, react to the
lighting in your room, and even cast shadows.

Environments let you transform the space around you, so apps can extend
beyond the dimensions of your room. Choose from a selection of beautiful
landscapes, or magically replace your ceiling with a clear, open sky. The
Digital Crown gives you full control over how immersed you are.

Vision Pro helps you remain connected to those around you. EyeSight reveals
your eyes and lets those nearby know when you’re using apps or fully immersed
in an experience. When someone approaches, Vision Pro simultaneously lets you
see the person and reveals your eyes to them.

Navigate visionOS simply by looking at apps, buttons, and text fields. App
icons and buttons subtly come to life when you look at them.

Tap your fingers together to make a selection and gently flick to scroll.
Vision Pro is designed to understand hand gestures from comfortable
positions,
like resting in your lap or on the sofa.

Simply look at the microphone button in a search field and start speaking to
dictate text.

Use Siri to quickly open or close apps, play media, and more.

Like every Apple product, Vision Pro was designed with accessibility in mind.
The flexible input system lets you use your eyes, hands, and voice
individually or in any combination with features like Dwell, Voice, and
Pointer Control.

===== Technology =====

Innovation you can see, hear, and feel.

The custom micro‑OLED display system features 23 million pixels, delivering
stunning resolution and colors. And a specially designed three‑element lens
creates the feeling of a display that’s everywhere you look.

Dual-driver audio pods positioned next to each ear deliver personalized sound
while letting you hear what’s around you. Ambient Spatial Audio makes sounds
feel like they’re coming from your surroundings. And with audio raytracing,
Vision Pro analyzes your room’s acoustic properties — including the physical
materials — to adapt and match sound to your space.

A high-performance eye tracking system of LEDs and infrared cameras projects
invisible light patterns onto each eye. This advanced system provides
ultraprecise input without your needing to hold any controllers, so you can
accurately select elements just by looking at them.

A pair of high-resolution cameras transmit over one billion pixels per second
to the displays so you can see the world around you clearly. The system also
helps deliver precise head and hand tracking and real‑time 3D mapping, all
while understanding your hand gestures from a wide range of positions.

A unique dual‑chip design enables the spatial experiences on Vision Pro. The
powerful M2 chip simultaneously runs visionOS, executes advanced computer
vision algorithms, and delivers stunning graphics, all with incredible
efficiency. And the brand-new R1 chip is specifically dedicated to process
input from the cameras, sensors, and microphones, streaming images to the
displays within 12 milliseconds — for a virtually lag-free, real-time view of
the world.

The LiDAR Scanner and TrueDepth camera work together to create a fused 3D map
of your surroundings, enabling Vision Pro to render digital content
accurately
in your space.

A specially designed thermal system gently moves air through Vision Pro, so
it can deliver phenomenal performance while remaining cool and quiet.

Infrared flood illuminators work with the external sensors to enhance hand
tracking performance in low‑light conditions.

===== Privacy and Security =====

When it comes to privacy, we don’t blink.

Use Optic ID to authorize purchases and unlock passwords with the uniqueness
of your iris. Optic ID data is encrypted, never leaves your device, and is
accessible only to the Secure Enclave processor.

Data from cameras and sensors is processed at the system level, so individual
apps do not need to see your surroundings to enable spatial experiences.

Eye input is not shared with Apple, third-party apps, or websites. Only your
final selections are transmitted when you tap your fingers together.

===== Use AR to view Apple Vision Pro. =====

Open this page using Safari on your iPhone or iPad.

===== An all‑new platform. An all‑new world for developers. =====

The possibilities for what developers can dream up and build for Vision Pro
are endless. And with familiar tools and frameworks like Xcode, SwiftUI,
RealityKit, and ARKit, as well as support for Unity and the new 3D-content
preparation app Reality Composer Pro, developers have everything they need to
create amazing spatial experiences.

===== Stay up to date. =====

Get updates on Apple Vision Pro, including news about availability.

===== Apple Footer =====



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.apple.com/apple-vision-pro/

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Apple Vision Pro - Apple
