
[1] Read Details

===== Better ways ahead. =====

===== Navigation =====

===== Driving. =====

===== Driving =====

Maps gives you at-a-glance information to make every drive a good one. Route
planning provides ETAs for future departures based on expected traffic. As
you
drive, you see real-time traffic, current speed limits, and nearby speed
cameras. Turn lanes, bike, bus, and taxi lanes, medians, and crosswalks are
displayed in incredible detail. When you approach a complex intersection,
Maps
switches to a 3D road-level perspective to simplify what’s ahead. Lane
guidance prepares you for turns and exits, so you can avoid wrong turns and
missed exits. If you drive an electric vehicle, Maps can assess your charge
level, elevation, and compatible charging stops along your route.1

===== Transit. =====

===== Transit =====

Getting around town is a snap with Maps. See real-time information about
transit arrival and departure times, outages, current locations of buses and
trains, and connections.2 You can even be alerted when you’re approaching
your
stop. Nearby departures are just a tap away, and you can pin your favorite
lines so the closest ones always show up at the top.

===== Walking. =====

===== Walking =====

Use augmented reality and Indoor Maps to stay on point when you’re on foot.
Just raise your iPhone to scan the buildings in the area, and Maps will show
step-by-step guidance in augmented reality.3 You can also use Indoor Maps to
easily find your way around major airports and shopping centers all over the
world. See which restaurants are past security at the airport, where the
nearest restroom is, or what floor your favorite store is on at the mall.

===== Cycling. =====

===== Cycling =====

Keep rolling with cycling directions that include an elevation profile of
your route.4 Maps will let you know if there’s a steep incline along your
way,
if you need to carry your bike up stairs, or if there’s a safer, easier route
that avoids busy roads. And with voice guidance and Haptic Feedback on Apple
Watch, you can stay even more focused on the path ahead.

===== Exploration =====

===== Detailed city experiences. =====

===== Detailed City Experiences =====

Explore San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York City, and London — and more
cities coming soon — with unprecedented detail for elevation, neighborhoods,
buildings, trees, and road features like crosswalks and turn lanes. Visit
amazing 3D landmarks like the Golden Gate Bridge in both the day and dark
mode
maps.

===== Look Around. =====

===== Look Around =====

Explore select cities with an interactive 3D street-level experience and a
smooth, seamless 360‑degree view. Use Look Around to scope out the parking
situation by that hot new brunch place, locate landmarks near a meet-up spot,
or get a feel for the neighborhoods in a new city. Precise views let you know
what to expect when you get there — so you can make the most of every outing.

===== Interactive globe. =====

===== Interactive Globe =====

Discover Earth’s natural beauty with a rich and interactive 3D globe. Explore
amazing textures and contours, with vibrant details of mountain ranges,
deserts, forests, oceans, and more.3 The most remote and precious locales on
the planet are now readily accessible.

===== Place cards. =====

===== Place Cards =====

Choose a destination, and its interactive place card shows you everything you
need at a glance. See basics like address, hours, website, and phone number,
along with details like price range, photo galleries, associated Guides,
accepted payment types — even whether you can bring your dog. Launch Flyover
or Look Around to get a sense of the location and surroundings. You can even
quickly and securely rent a bike, pay for parking, order food, and more with
just a tap. And for places that use Business Chat, you can reach out and ask
questions directly in Messages.

===== Search. =====

===== Search =====

It’s quick and easy to find just what you’re looking for in Maps. Use
ultra-targeted filters to search for restaurants by cuisine, price range, and
whether they offer takeout. Or choose to see only places that are open right
now. Want to broaden your search? Just move the map, and your search results
update automatically. Want something closer to home? Tap Nearby to find local
places in categories like Restaurants, Gas Stations, Coffee, Hotels, Bars,
Fast Food, Groceries, and Shopping Centers. Locations are displayed on the
map
with colorful badges, making it even easier to pinpoint your picks.

===== Flyover. =====

===== Flyover =====

Get a whole new perspective on select major metro areas with photo‑realistic,
immersive 3D views. Move your iPhone or iPad through space to experience a
city from above, or take a closer look at cities and their landmarks in high
resolution as you zoom, pan, tilt, and rotate.5 It’s exploration elevated.

===== Expertise =====

===== Guides. =====

===== Guides =====

Guides help you find amazing things to see and do in cities around the
world.6 Just tap the Explore Guides button to access nearly 1000 expertly
curated Guides, and find and save the ones that catch your eye. Curated
Guides
automatically update when new places are added, so you always have the latest
recommendations at your fingertips. You can also create your own Guides and
share them with friends and family.

===== Curation. =====

===== Curation =====

Interested in boho-chic gastropubs in Rio? Family-friendly rock pools near
Cape Town? A movie star’s best-kept secrets for Palm Springs? We’ve got you
covered. Guides tap into the local culture for the ultimate insider
experience
wherever you eat, shop, meet friends, or explore in cities around the world.

===== Editorial experts. =====

===== Editorial Experts =====

We’ve partnered with some of the most trusted and experienced names in travel
and publishing to create distinctive collections of must‑see city
attractions.
Current Guides are constantly being updated, and new ones are always on the
way — so you’re sure to find the latest and greatest, wherever you go.

===== Integration =====

===== Seamless experience. =====

===== Seamless Experience =====

Enjoy a smooth, uninterrupted experience across all the Apple devices you use
to get around. Haptic Feedback on Apple Watch nudges you in the right
direction so you don’t have to get out your iPhone when you’re on foot or on
your bike. Calendar alerts on your Mac let you know when it’s time to stop
working and go. Just say the word, and HomePod finds directions and sends
them
to your iPhone on your way out the door. And Maps also syncs automatically
with Siri, Spotlight, Messages, and Weather to give you relevant information
at all the right moments.

===== CarPlay. =====

===== CarPlay =====

CarPlay brings the power and simplicity of Maps behind the wheel. It can make
intelligent suggestions based on data you already store on your device, like
addresses from your email, text messages, contacts, and calendars. And with a
detailed map, turn‑by‑turn spoken directions, and immersive 3D experiences,
it’s easier than ever to get where you need to go.

===== Issues and incidents. =====

===== Issues and Incidents =====

Incorrect lunch hours listed at your favorite cafe? Old mattress in the
middle of the highway? Whatever issue you encounter, it’s fast and easy to
report it in Maps. Edit and submit updated information about a business
directly in the place card interface. And report an accident, hazard, or
speed
check safely and easily with Siri. Just say “There’s an accident up ahead” or
“There’s something on the road” and Siri will file the incident for you. If
an
incident displayed on the map has been cleared, you can report that, too —
all
while keeping your hands free and your focus on the road.

===== Settings. =====

===== Settings =====

Open Maps and tap your user account photo at the bottom of the screen to see
your most used settings — like preferred mode of transit, reported issues,
and
favorites — all in one place. And when you open Maps on your devices or on
your dashboard with CarPlay, it displays the places you visit most — so
you’re
always just a tap away from home, work, the gym, your kid’s school, the
nearest gas station, or your favorite restaurant.

===== Privacy =====

===== Data protection. =====

===== Data Protection =====

Maps delivers a great experience without Apple knowing which stores,
neighborhoods, or clinics you visit. Because Maps doesn’t include a sign-in,
where you go isn’t associated with your Apple ID at all. And personalized
features, like locating your parked car, are created right on your device.
Data used to improve navigation, such as routes and search terms, is not
associated with your identity. Instead, that information is based on random
identifiers that are constantly changing.

===== In case you missed anything. =====

Maps is available in over two hundred regions around the world. For
information on which features are available where you are, visit the Feature
Availability page.

Maps doesn’t associate your data with your Apple ID, and Apple doesn’t keep a
history of where you’ve been. Personalized features, like locating your
parked
car, are initiated right on your device. Data used to improve navigation,
such
as routes and search terms, is not associated with your identity. Instead,
that information is based on random identifiers that are constantly changing.

Curated Guides are lists of places created by trusted partners to help you
find great places to eat, shop, meet friends, or just explore. Maps offers
more than 1000 curated Guides in cities around the world. In iOS 15, tap
Explore Guides in Maps to see Guides recommended by Maps editors.

Apple offers two ways for developers to integrate Maps into their products.

MapKit allows you to integrate Maps into your iOS, iPadOS, or macOS apps. You
can display map or satellite imagery, add annotations and overlays, call out
points of interest, determine information for map coordinates, and more.

MapKit JS brings interactive maps to your website — complete with
annotations, overlays, and interfaces for Maps services like search and
directions.

Update to iOS 15, iPadOS 15, and macOS Monterey to get the latest Maps
features, including the interactive globe, 3D experiences for cities like San
Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, and London, nearby transit, and more.

===== Get moving. =====

===== Apple Footer =====



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://www.apple.com/maps/

LICENSE: Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Maps - Apple
