
[1] Read Details

===== Nick Cannon has 12 kids ranging from ages 12 years to 5 months =====

By Emily Trainham | Fox News

'The Masked Singer' emcee Nick Cannon and his celebrity guests showcase
unbelievable viral videos on 'Nick Cannon's Hit Viral Videos: Holidays 2019.'

Nick Cannon may be a millionaire, but that doesn't mean he's willing to pay
child support.

As he explained in a new interview on "The Jason Lee Podcast," Cannon has 12
children, but he doesn't pay child support for any of them, at least not in
any official capacity.

Speaking about previous reports that he doesn't support his children
financially, he said, "It's funny, because there was some narrative, like
‘Nick Cannon doesn’t pay child support,' what I was saying was the child
support system that is run by the government."

"My money is they money," Cannon, who is worth a reported $100 million, said.
"They can have whatever they want. My account is their account, and there's a
lot in there so we ain't gonna run out."

Nick Cannon shares 12 children with six different women. (Shareif
Ziyadat/Getty Images)

When asked about taking care of his finances, he said, "I don't care about
that stuff. I believe true currency is your energy. I wish I could make a
contract, ‘You cannot take this much of my energy when you leave.’"

Cannon continued, "Money comes and goes. I always tell people, 'Money don't
make you happy. Happy makes you money.' So I'm always going to be good, and
every dollar that I make is for my family."

He also said that having 12 children with six different women has made him
emotionally unavailable to attend to any new relationships.

Nick Cannon has been transparent about his financial responsibilities as a
parent to 12 children. (Prince Williams/Getty Images)

"I don't want to sacrifice for another individual," he said. "I want to
sacrifice for my children, and that's about it. But I can't give time,
energy,
love to somebody I just met. I don't want no new friends, I don't want no new
relationships because I value the people that are in my life so much and I'm
already spread thin enough to where I got to be ready to be attentive to
that."

The original comments about child support came from an interview Cannon did
with a St. Louis radio station in March.

He said then that he doesn't pay child support, but explained, "It ain't even
about a monthly allowance or amount of money because I don't give myself
that.
What they need, they get it."

Nick Cannon says that God will decide when he's done having children.
(Gabriel Olsen/Getty Images)

"There's never been something that one of the mothers of my children has
asked for and they didn't receive," he added. "That's why they call me the
provider."

Cannon's oldest children are Moroccan and Monroe, the 12-year-old twins he
shares with Mariah Carey.

He and model Brittany Bell have three children together: 6-year-old Golden
Sagon, 2-year-old Powerful Queen and 6-month-old Rise Messiah.

Nick Cannon's children range from the ages of 12 years to 5 months. (Getty
Images)

He has another set of twins, Zion and Zillion, who will turn 2 next month, as
well as a 6-month-old infant daughter named Beautiful with radio personality
Abby De La Rosa.

Reality star Bre Tiesi has one child with Cannon, 10-month-old Legendary
Love, and model LaNisha Cole also shares an infant with him, 8-month-old Onyx
Ice.

Cannon's youngest child is 5-month-old Halo Marie, a daughter he shares with
model Alyssa Scott. Their child Zen passed away at 5 months old in 2021 from
brain cancer.

Emily Trainham is an entertainment editor for Fox News Digital.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/nick-cannon-doesnt-pay-government-child-support-12-children?dicbo=v2-0otvxSb

LICENSE: ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Nick Cannon doesn't pay 'government' child support for his 12 children: 'They can have whatever they want' | Fox News
