
[1] Read Details

===== Wallace had a solid weekend on the track between the Cup and Truck
Series races =====

NASCAR star Bubba Wallace finished in second place at the All-Star Race after
Kyle Larson put on a dominant showing in the Cup Series’ return to North
Wilkesboro Speedway.

But Wallace turned heads after the race when he appeared to flip off the
camera before he talked to FOX Sports’ Jamie Little about his performance.
Wallace appeared to be booed during the driver introductions and after the
race.

Bubba Wallace during driver intros prior to the NASCAR Cup Series All-Star
Race at North Wilkesboro Speedway on May 21, 2023, in North Carolina. (Sean
Gardner/Getty Images)

After the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series race on Saturday, he spoke about the
boos directed at him. He said he was used to it because they come every race.

"As long as you continue to live your life judging a book by its cover,
that’s who you are," he said. "Don’t change it up for anybody else. That’s
the
biggest thing. That’s fine.

"I mean, I finished fifth, I got a good payday. I’m good."

Bubba Wallace during the NASCAR Cup Series All-Star Race on May 21, 2023, in
North Wilkesboro, North Carolina. (David J. Griffin/Icon Sportswire via Getty
Images)

Wallace’s second-place finish in the Cup Series event was overshadowed by an
incident on his radio. A person apparently was able to spread a derogatory
message over his airwaves, according to Motorsport.com.

"Go back to where you came from you a--hole," the person reportedly said.
"You’re not wanted in NASCAR."

A 23XI Racing spokesperson told the website Wallace didn’t hear the message
or acknowledge them when the person got onto the airwaves. NASCAR is
reportedly investigating the incident.

Wallace finished about 4.5 seconds behind Larson.

Bubba Wallace talks with members of his crew on May 21, 2023, at North
Wilkesboro Speedway in North Carolina. (Jeff Robinson/Icon Sportswire via
Getty Images)

"Larson was lights out, so congrats to him," Wallace said. "They have been
hitting it on the head all season, so to run second to them is not a bad
thing. But to run second in the All-Star race sucks because you go home with
nothing."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Ryan Gaydos is a senior editor for Fox News Digital.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.foxnews.com/sports/bubba-wallace-appears-flip-off-camera-nascar-reportedly-investigating-apparent-hack-drivers-radio

LICENSE: ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Bubba Wallace appears to flip off camera; NASCAR reportedly investigating apparent hack into driver's radio | Fox News
