
[1] Read Details

By Denise Petski

Senior Managing Editor

EXCLUSIVE: Rising comedian, actor and TikTok sensation Matt Rife is set to
launch his first world tour. Rife’s ProbleMATTic World Tour, produced by Live
Nation, will hit cities across North America, Australia and Europe throughout
2023 and 2024.

The tour, with more than 100 dates, kicks off on Thursday, July 20 in Bend,
OR at Hayden Homes Amphitheater with stops across North America in Los
Angeles, Las Vegas, Austin and more this year before wrapping up 2023 with a
New Year’s Eve show on Sunday, December 31 at The Louisville Palace in
Louisville, KY.

Related Story Joe Biden To Call For Congress To Place Limits On Concert
Ticket Fees, TV And Internet Providers' Early Termination Charges

The tour continues next year with a series of Australia dates starting
Thursday, January 11, in Perth, Western Australia at Perth Concert Hall, with
stops in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne before embarking on a second North
America run that will hit New York, Chicago, Nashville, Toronto, along with
many other cities. Rife will then head to Europe in the fall with shows in
Amsterdam, London, Paris and more before concluding the tour on Friday,
October 20 at Santeria Toscana 31 in Milan.

Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis, who are big fans of Rife, helped him get the
word out about his world tour in a promo, which you can watch below. In it
Kutcher plays a genie who grants Rife his wish, which just happens to be a
world tour. Kunis makes a (very) brief appearance after Rife first tells
Kutcher his wish would be a date with Kunis, which Kutcher immediately shoots
down.

“I couldn’t be more thrilled to live out this life long dream! To tour the
world, spreading laughter, with some of my best friends, is something I never
thought would be possible. I’m so grateful to get this opportunity, and it’s
even more fulfilling knowing that it’s all because of the incredible people
who enjoy my comedy,” said Rife. “I’ve been working so hard towards this for
12 years and now I’ve surrounded myself with a team who works just as hard
and
share the same passion! I still can’t believe it.”

“Matt has quickly become one of the fastest-rising comics, creating
incredible global demand for tickets,” says Andy Levitt, VP, Live Nation
Comedy Touring. “We’re looking forward to working alongside him and helping
him connect to his audiences around the world.”

In 2021, Rife self-produced and distributed through YouTube his first
one-hour comedy special, Only Fans. This past April, the comedian
self-released his highly anticipated second stand-up special, Matthew Steven
Rife on YouTube. The special was taped in Austin, TX and is dedicated to his
biggest role model, his grandfather Steven who had recently passed. Rife will
be taping his third stand-up special this fall in Washington, DC at DAR
Constitution Hall.

Rife made his TV debut on MTV’s Wild ‘N Out and hosted the network’s TRL
reboot. His acting work has included appearances on shows like Fresh Off the
Boat and Brooklyn Nine-Nine. In 2019, he was a contestant on NBC’s comedy
competition show, Bring the Funny. Rife truly became known after posting some
of his stand-up material on TikTok, amassing over 13 million followers and
more than 2 billion views globally, to date. He also 3.6 million followers on
Instagram.

Tickets for the ProbleMATTic World Tour will be available starting with an
Artist presale beginning Tuesday, June 6 at 10 a.m. local time worldwide.
Additional presales will run throughout the week ahead of the general onsale
beginning at 10 a.m. Friday, June 9, at MattRifeOfficial.com.

Rife is repped by CAA & Christina Shams at Avesta Entertainment.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://deadline.com/2023/06/matt-rife-world-tour-live-nation-ashton-kutcher-mila-kunis-promo-watch-1235399272/

LICENSE: © 2023 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Comedian Matt Rife Sets His First World Tour With Live Nation – Deadline
