
[1] Read Details

===== Following what was a carnage of a knock as Gill notched up multiple
record, Virat Kohli reacted to the century with a bombastic post. =====

Gujarat Titans opener Shubman Gill on Friday continued his love affair with
Ahmedabad's Narendra Modi Stadium as he notched up his third century in his
blockbuster IPL 2023 season in the Qualifier 2 match against Mumbai Indians.
He smashed a record-breaking 129 off just 60 balls as the hosts powered to
233
for three - their highest ever total and second highest against MI in all
IPL.
Following what was a carnage of a knock as Gill notched up multiple record,
Virat Kohli reacted to the century with a bombastic post. (GT vs MI Live
Score, IPL 2023 Qualifier 2)

It was simply a one-man show on Friday. Put to bat first on a track that
looked patchy after the heavy spell off evening rain, openers Gill and
Wriddhiman Shah got off to a promising start with a fifty-run stand before
the
latter departed. Gill then broke free with a six each against Piyush Chawla
and Kumar Kartikeya before he took down Akash Madhwal and the veteran leg
spinner for a flurry of boundaries that took him to his century off just 49
balls.

Gill continued his carnage adding 29 runs more off the next 11 balls before
being dismissed in the 17th over. But the knock, combined with a bit of
assistance from Sai Sudharsan and Hardik Pandya helped GT reach 233 for
three.

===== ALSO READ: Watch: Bishop, Gavaskar stupefied; MI dugout in shock as
Shubman destroys eliminator hero Madhwal with 3 colossal sixes =====

Following the score, that saw Gill become the second Indian batter to amass
800 runs in a season after Kohli's 2016 campaign, the former RCB skipper
reacted on Instagram with a stunning post. He shared a picture of the GT
opener as a story and did not write any words. It only had an emoticon of a
star.

"Got a good total, hopefully we will defend this. A lot, sweat went into my
eyes and I was not able to open them. We have played our best cricket when we
have lost and this is one of those days. Definitely it plays a part, you have
to know which side to target, if it's bigger boundaries and they bowl in good
areas, look for doubles, smaller boundaries look to take it on. The new ball
held up a bit, there was not much grass on that wicket, the ball was coming
on
nicely and with the outfield wet it stopped swinging after 2 overs," Gill
said
after the innings.

Catch all the Latest Cricket News and Live score along with IPL 2023 and IPL
schedule related updates on Hindustan Times



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/virat-kohlis-bombastic-reaction-to-shubman-gills-record-century-in-ipl-2023-qualifier-2-tie-vs-mumbai-indians-101685119271045.html

LICENSE: Copyright Â© HT Digital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] Kohli's bombastic reaction to Shubman Gill's record century vs Mumbai Indians | Cricket - Hindustan Times
