
[1] Read Details

Bubba Wallace smiles prior to the NASCAR All-Star Cup Series auto race at
North Wilkesboro Speedway, Sunday, May 21, 2023, in North Wilkesboro, N.C.
(AP
Photo/Matt Kelley)AP

2,323

shares

By Mark Heim | mheim@al.com

NASCAR star Bubba Wallace finished in second place at the All-Star Race on
Sunday behind Kyle Larson in the Cup Series’ return to North Wilkesboro
Speedway.

However, Wallace got more attention after the race when he appeared to flip
off the camera before talking to FOX Sports’ Jamie Little about his
performance.

Real professional there @BubbaWallace @23XIRacing flipping the bird at the
start of his post race interview. No class man. #NASCAR @NASCAR @NASCARONFOX
pic.twitter.com/bg7fiIrHol — Charlie Waffles (@CWaffles) May 22, 2023

Real professional there @BubbaWallace @23XIRacing flipping the bird at the
start of his post race interview. No class man. #NASCAR @NASCAR @NASCARONFOX
pic.twitter.com/bg7fiIrHol

In addition, according to Motorsport.com, Wallace’s second-place finish was
overshadowed when a person apparently was able to spread a derogatory message
over his airwaves.

“Go back to where you came from you a--hole,” the person reportedly said.
“You’re not wanted in NASCAR.”

A 23XI Racing spokesperson told the website Wallace didn’t hear the message
or acknowledge them when the person got onto the airwaves. NASCAR is
reportedly investigating the incident.

On Saturday, after the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series race, he was asked about
the boos directed at him, which he said occurs every race.

“As long as you continue to live your life judging a book by its cover,
that’s who you are,” he said. “Don’t change it up for anybody else. That’s
the
biggest thing. That’s fine.

“I mean, I finished fifth, I got a good payday. I’m good.”

The boos for @BubbaWallace after today’s truck race & during driver intros
were very loud at North Wilkesboro Speedway. A @wsoctv reporter asked a great
question about how/if that affects Bubba. Wallace gave a great answer in
return. #NASCAR pic.twitter.com/0VDHtUZ7c0 — Noah Lewis (@Noah_Lewis1) May
20,
2023

The boos for @BubbaWallace after today’s truck race & during driver intros
were very loud at North Wilkesboro Speedway. A @wsoctv reporter asked a great
question about how/if that affects Bubba. Wallace gave a great answer in
return. #NASCAR pic.twitter.com/0VDHtUZ7c0

Mark Heim is a reporter for The Alabama Media Group. Follow him on Twitter
@Mark_Heim. He can be heard on “The Opening Kickoff” on WNSP-FM 105.5 FM in
Mobile or on the free Sound of Music App from 6 to 9 a.m. daily.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.al.com/motorsports/2023/05/bubba-wallace-gives-finger-on-tv-nascar-looking-into-hacked-radio-go-back-to-where-you-came-from.html

LICENSE: © 2023 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved

=========================================


$
[B:t] Bubba Wallace gives finger on TV; NASCAR looking into hacked radio: ‘Go back to where you came from’ - al.com
