
[1] Read Details

===== Nikola Jokic triple-double blows the Miami Heat away as Denver Nuggets
seal a commanding 104-93 victory in Game 1 of the NBA Finals =====

By Jake Fenner For Dailymail.Com

Published: 20:25 EDT, 1 June 2023 | Updated: 00:24 EDT, 2 June 2023

30

View comments

Nikola Jokic was the most obvious target of the Miami Heat’s zonal defensive
structure. So what did Denver Nuggets coach Michael Malone do? He made the
6-foot-11 Serbian the main playmaker.

By putting Jokic on distribution duty, space opened up under the basket -
something Aaron Gordon and Jamal Murray took advantage of as the Nuggets took
Game 1 104-93.

Miami's abysmal shooting performance sunk them as the Nuggets took Game 1 at
home as they only went 39-96 from the field and 13-39 from 3-point range.
They
also set a record for the least free throw attempts in a Finals game, with
just two shots.

MVP candidate Nikola Jokic was the most impactful performer of the night -
putting up a triple-double of 27 points, 10 rebounds, and 14 assists.

It was a record breaking night for Jokic. He became the first player to drop
a triple-double in his finals debut since Jason Kidd in 2002. In addition, he
surpassed Bill Russell's record for most assists by a center.

'The first three rounds they won the first game and that they traveled and
played on the road and we didn't wanna have that happen,' Jokic said after
the
game. 'I think we did a good job to hold that team to 93 points is a really
good job.'

Jamal Murray's 26 points helped the Denver Nuggets in their 104-93 win over
the Miami Heat

Nikola Jokic grabbed a triple-double, putting up 27 points, 10 rebounds, and
14 assists

Jokic broke Bill Russell's Finals single-game record for assists by a center
with 14 on the night

Jamal Murray shone bright for Denver - finishing with 26 points, ten assists,
and six rebounds. Aaron Gordon's hot start helped him finish with 16 points
and six rebounds.

Bam Adebayo was the top performer for the Heat with a 13-25 shooting
performance that led to 26 points and 13 rebounds. Haywood Highsmith was also
a key contributor for Miami - putting up 18 points off the bench.

But for the most part, Miami's role players that helped them get here went
largely silent.

While Gabe Vincent did well by putting up 19 points, fellow starters Caleb
Martin and Max Strus - who have both put up great performances in these
playoffs - did not. Martin and Strus combined for just three points on a 1-17
shooting line, including a 1-11 line from beyond the arc.

But star player Jimmy Butler was held in check as Gordon defended him well.
Butler went 6-14 for 13 points, seven rebounds, and seven assists.

Bam Adebayo (13) was Miami's best player on the night - putting up a
double-double

But Miami role players Caleb Martin and Max Strus shot a combined 1-17 on the
night

Even star player Jimmy Butler was off - putting up only 13 points in the
losing effort

It was a monster start to the game by Gordon - Denver's role playing power
forward. The former All-Star slipped and slid around Miami’s zone defense -
opening up space in the paint and putting up 12 points on 6-8 shooting in
just
the first quarter alone.

Jokic to racked up six assists in the first quarter alone, letting the
offense run through him.

He didn’t even take a shot until three seconds remained in the quarter. After
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope missed a shot, Miami’s Cody Zeller rebounded the
ball. Jokic swatted it out of his hands, caught a pass from Gordon, and put
it
in the basket.

On the other side of the court, Miami's Bam Adebayo shot an impressive 4-6
for eight points as the Heat remained close by the end of the first quarter.

But Murray set the tone for the rest of the game as he and Michael Porter Jr.
opened up quarter number two by letting the 3-point shots fly to increase
their lead to 35-24.

Role players on both teams got in on the scoring as Denver's Jeff Green and
Miami's Duncan Robinson and Haywood Highsmith grabbed buckets.

Miami shortened the deficit thanks to three straight shots hit by Kyle Lowry,
Adebayo, and Highsmith - but Denver almost always found a response.

But Murray really began pouring it on - hitting a crucial 3-pointer to bring
his point total to 18 at the half.

Aaron Gordon and Denver took advantage of Miami's zone early - taking a first
quarter lead

Jamal Murray had an impressive second quarter that set the tone for the rest
of the game

By the time the buzzer sounded on the half, Jokic had already completed a
double-double with 10 points and 10 assists off some sublime passing.

Murray didn't slow down his scoring as the third quarter got underway -
scoring Denver's first six points of the quarter.

Bam Adebayo began to take his chance to exert himself for Miami's offense.
The big man finished the quarter with a total of 24 points on 12-23 shooting.

But the rest of Miami struggled to show up in this quarter. By the time three
frames were through, the Heat were shooting an appalling 27-76 (35.5 percent)
from the field and 7-27 (25.9 percent) from 3-point range.

Miami began to heat up in the fourth quarter - putting up an 11-0 run. But by
then, it was too late. Jokic, who had started that final quarter on the
bench,
came back onto the court and put up the stats he needed to close out his epic
feat.



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/nba/article-12150511/Miami-Heat-vs-Denver-Nuggets-LIVE-NBA-Finals-updates-report-reaction-Butler-faces-Jokic.html

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Miami Heat vs Denver Nuggets LIVE: NBA Finals updates, report and reaction as Butler faces Jokic | Daily Mail Online
