
[1] Read Details

Gov. Cooper has declared that public education in North Carolina is facing a
state of emergency and he urges North Carolinians to contact legislators.
Read
more about how to help protect public schools.

An official website of the State of North Carolina An official website of NC
How you know

Home About the First Family Roy Cooper

Governor Roy Cooper is serving his second term as North Carolina’s 75th
Governor. The Governor is a lifelong North Carolinian, born and raised in
Nash
County, where he attended public schools and worked summers on the family
farm
before earning undergraduate and law degrees from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Throughout his career, Governor Cooper has worked to build a stronger North
Carolina where everyone has an opportunity to live in safe communities and
get
a quality education, a good job and access to affordable health care.

As Governor, Cooper has announced tens of thousands of new jobs, fought to
boost public education, tackled the opioid crisis, revitalized rural
communities and made sure North Carolinians have the training to fill the
jobs
of today and tomorrow. Governor Cooper has taken strong executive and
legislative action to fight climate change, make North Carolina a more
inclusive place and help families with policies like paid parental leave.
Governor Cooper negotiated and signed landmark energy legislation that
requires North Carolina utilities to reduce power generation carbon emissions
70% by 2030 and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.

He has led the state with a steady hand throughout a series of unprecedented
crises. After hurricanes devastated parts of North Carolina, Governor Cooper
established the NC Office of Recovery and Resiliency and fought for resources
to help North Carolina recover smarter and stronger. When the COVID-19
pandemic hit, Governor Cooper’s decisive action and steady leadership helped
North Carolina endure with among the fewest COVID deaths and job losses per
capita in the nation.

Governor Cooper appointed the most diverse cabinet in North Carolina history,
making good on his commitment to ensure state government looks like the
people
it serves.

Before his election as Governor, Cooper served four terms as state Attorney
General, where he oversaw a sharp decrease in crime and fought for consumers
by advocating for lower utility rates and putting predatory lenders out of
business.

Governor Cooper got his start in public service in the North Carolina State
House and State Senate, where he served as Majority Leader. Before that, he
practiced law for 18 years and managed his law firm. He and his wife Kristin
raised three daughters in Rocky Mount. Cooper’s mother was a public school
teacher, which helped instill his deep commitment to public education.

As the state emerges from the pandemic, people and businesses are flocking to
North Carolina in record numbers. Governor Cooper is focused on ensuring that
our people and communities have the tools to grow and thrive and that our
state’s best days are ahead.

===== Contact Information =====

North Carolina Office of the Governor

20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-0301

(919) 814-2000



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://governor.nc.gov/about-first-family/roy-cooper

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] Roy Cooper | NC Gov. Cooper
