
[1] Read Details

Gov. Cooper has declared that public education in North Carolina is facing a
state of emergency and he urges North Carolinians to contact legislators.
Read
more about how to help protect public schools.

An official website of the State of North Carolina An official website of NC
How you know

===== Governor Roy Cooper =====

Roy Cooper is honored to serve as North Carolina’s Governor. He understands
the challenges facing our families and communities and wants to build a North
Carolina that works for everyone.

===== Information on North Carolina's Response to Canton Paper Mill Closure
=====

On March 6, Pactiv Evergreen announced plans to shut down the paper mill in
Canton, North Carolina. Gov. Roy Cooper and his Administration are committed
to supporting the people of Canton and western North Carolina. For more
information, visit our page.

===== North Carolina's Public Education Crisis =====

Public education is the bedrock of North Carolina’s success. Public education
powers our workforce, builds our businesses and boosts our communities.
Unfortunately, our public schools are under assault. The current General
Assembly is considering extreme legislation that would cripple our public
education system. Governor Cooper is calling on you to contact your state
legislators and ask them to protect our public schools.

===== News =====

Expanded Republican Voucher Scheme Would Have Disastrous Impacts on Public
School Budgets

A State of Emergency for Public Education: In Special Address, Governor
Cooper Issues Call to Action to Protect Public Schools Amid Spate of Extreme
Legislation

Governor Cooper Statement on Republican Vote to Override SB20 Veto

Our Task Force & state officials are working around the clock to keep people
informed & safe. North Carolinians can visit this dashboard or call the
Coronavirus hotline at 866-462-3821 with questions or concerns.

North Carolina is emerging from the pandemic stronger than ever. Here’s a
look back at some of the biggest and best moments of 2022, showing how
Governor Cooper and North Carolinians are laying the foundation for future
generations.

Supporting rural North Carolina is a top priority for Governor Cooper. With
Hometown Strong, we’re going to do things differently -- increasing
communication between state and local leaders and championing rural North
Carolina.

===== Contact Information =====

North Carolina Office of the Governor

20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-0301

(919) 814-2000



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL: https://governor.nc.gov/

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] home-page | NC Gov. Cooper
