
[1] Read Details

Gov. Cooper has declared that public education in North Carolina is facing a
state of emergency and he urges North Carolinians to contact legislators.
Read
more about how to help protect public schools.

An official website of the State of North Carolina An official website of NC
How you know

Home About the First Family First Lady Kristin Cooper

===== Meet the First Lady =====

First Lady Kristin Cooper

Kristin Cooper is honored to serve as First Lady of North Carolina, a state
she has called home for most of her life.

The daughter of an artist and a Vietnam veteran and physician, Mrs. Cooper
grew up in Oklahoma City along with her three younger sisters. She attended
public schools, earned her undergraduate degree from the University of
Oklahoma, and then attended Campbell Law School in North Carolina. After
graduating law school, she worked as a staff attorney to the legislature in
Oklahoma and in North Carolina.

Kristin Cooper is using her platform to improve the well-being of children in
North Carolina. She champions initiatives, organizations, and people who are
working to create a safe, nurturing, healthy environment for children and
their families. Her focus is on foster care, child abuse and neglect,
childhood hunger, and literacy. Additionally, she focuses on the arts and
nature to ensure that all children in North Carolina have access to play and
thrive creatively. Mrs. Cooper’s attention to these causes underscores how
the
integration of these issues stems from the effects of adverse childhood
experiences, trauma, toxic stress, and poverty.

Kristin has served as a Guardian ad Litem for children in Wake County since
2003, using her legal training to represent foster children in court. Kristin
and other volunteers assure that at-risk children do not become neglected or
abandoned. Kristin also served two terms on the North Carolina Arts Council,
and serves on Raleigh Little Theatre Advisory Board..

She and Governor Roy Cooper raised their three daughters here in North
Carolina. Each of them is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

In addition to her advocacy for children, Mrs. Cooper also has a passion for
North Carolina’s wildlife. As an amateur birder, she joined efforts with
Audubon North Carolina to restore native plant life to the grounds at the
North Carolina Executive Mansion. Together, they’ve planted over 1,000 native
plants, carefully selected to support native bird and pollinator populations
on the Mansion’s downtown Raleigh plot. A similar garden has been planted at
the Governor’s Western Residence in Asheville.

Today, Kristin and Roy make their home in Raleigh with their cats. Kristin’s
friends are frequently treated to photos of plants blooming in her yard,
birds
that nest on her porch, and her latest crafting projects.

Mrs. Cooper is currently working toward her goal to visit all 100 counties in
North Carolina. Her favorite part of being first lady is the unique
opportunity to explore North Carolina and spend time with people everywhere
she goes.

===== Follow the First Lady =====

Facebook kristincooperflonc

Twitter @FLONC

Instagram @KristinCooperFLONC

Request a Meeting Or submit an invitation to our office

===== Contact Information =====

North Carolina Office of the Governor

20301 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-0301

(919) 814-2000



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://governor.nc.gov/about-first-family/north-carolina-first-lady-kristin-cooper

LICENSE:

=========================================


$
[B:t] North Carolina First Lady Kristin Cooper | NC Gov. Cooper
