
[1] Read Details

Published May 29, 2023Updated May 30, 2023

When Tom Wambsgans outmaneuvered the Roy siblings, getting himself named as
the U.S. executive running Waystar Royco for GoJo at the end of a rollicking
finale of the HBO series “Succession,” it likely came as a shock to many of
the viewers at home. But to fans of baseball’s early days, and internet
conspiracy theorists, the signs had been there for Tom to come out on top,
besting three competitors at the same time.

“It’s me,” Wambsgans said as he admitted his power play to his wife, Shiv
Roy.

It was the expected outcome for some, thanks to Bill Wambsganss, a second
baseman for Cleveland from 1914 to 1923. Wambsganss didn’t hit much, and
there’s little indication he was a stellar base runner or a top-notch
fielder.
But he had one moment of pure glory, turning the first — and only —
unassisted
triple play in World Series history.

Tom Wambsgans also did not stand out to many ahead of the finale for much
beyond his poor treatment of Cousin Greg and his destructive relationship
with
his wife. But his unusual surname, and the notion that he would have to knock
out three opponents at once, caught fire on social media in the leadup to the
finale, thanks largely to a viral TikTok by Sophie Kihm, the editor in chief
of Nameberry, an online catalog of baby names.

After watching her video, people began to speculate if the show’s writers had
tipped their hands as to who would come out on top — and how. The theory had
existed in various places for awhile — some believe it explained the ending
of
Season 3 — but, as the series began to wrap up, the idea that Tom could end
up
winning, just like Wambsganss, started to feel more and more plausible.

“I hate to spoil the internet’s fun, but it’s false,” Frank Rich, an
executive producer of the show, told Stefan Fatsis of Slate, spoiling the
internet’s fun. “Tom’s family name was picked before we had shot a first
season.”

Rich, who said the team behind “Succession” did not know Tom would come out
on top before the series began, claimed Wambsgans was the family name of a
staff member.

Even if the connection to Wambsganss was unintentional, it served to shine a
light on a player who had been all but forgotten beyond one outrageously good
play. Sean Forman of Baseball Reference reported on Sunday night that there
was a surge of traffic on Wambsganss’ player page in the wake of the show’s
finale.

What people found is an unremarkable player who made a play that is worth all
the attention.

Wambsganss and Cleveland were facing Brooklyn in the 1920 World Series. In
the fifth inning of Game 5, with Cleveland leading by 7-0, Brooklyn’s Pete
Kilduff and Otto Miller both singled. Clarence Mitchell then hit a liner that
looked as if it could score a run or more.

In a breathless story about the game the next day, which ran on the front
page, The New York Times recounted what happened once the ball left
Mitchell’s
bat. Wambsganss, who had been playing fairly far from second base, “leaped
over toward the cushion and with a mighty jump speared the ball with one
hand,” the paper reported.

“Wamby’s noodle began to operate faster than it ever did before,” the article
continued. “He hopped over to second and touched the bag, retiring Kilduff,
who was far down the alley toward third base.”

With two outs already having been recorded on the play, Wambsganss turned his
attention to Miller.

“Otto was evidently so surprised that he was just glued to the ground, and
Wamby just waltzed over and touched him for the third out,” the paper
reported.

The play gave Wambsganss a level of notoriety that eclipsed anything else
about his career, or even his life despite his playing six more major league
seasons before going on to manage in the All-American Girls Professional
Baseball League.

“Funny thing, I played in the big leagues for 13 years, 1914 through 1926,
and the only thing that anybody seems to remember is that once I made an
unassisted triple play in a World Series,” he said in the 1966 baseball oral
history, “The Glory of Their Times.” “Many don’t even remember the team I was
on, or the position I played, or anything. Just Wambsganss-unassisted triple
play! You’d think I was born on the day before and died on the day after.”

With “Succession” having completed its wildly popular run on television, we
will never know if Tom Wambsgans was able to thrive after completing a triple
play of his own, or if he would come to be defined only by the one moment, as
Wambsganss was.

In Wambsganss’s defense, it has been more than 100 years since the unassisted
triple play, and people are still talking about him. You would have to assume
Tom Wambsgans would be OK with having the same fate.

Benjamin Hoffman is a senior editor in sports and a regular contributor to
the Keeping Score column. He joined The Times in 2004. @BenHoffmanNYT

A version of this article appears in print on , Section B, Page 8 of the New
York edition with the headline: ‘Succession’ Has Ending A Triple Play Could
Spoil. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

Give this article



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/29/sports/baseball/tom-bill-wambsganss-succession.html

LICENSE: © 2023 The New York Times Company

=========================================


$
[B:t] Was Tom Wambsgans a Reference to Bill Wambsganss? - The New York Times
