
[1] Read Details

May 22, 2023

The Foo Fighters introduced a new drummer, Josh Freese, just before the
release of their album next month and their first tour since the death last
year of the rock band’s previous drummer, Taylor Hawkins, which devastated
the
group and its fans.

Freese, 50, was featured Sunday in an hourlong streamed rehearsal, “Preparing
Music for Concerts,” which featured a mix of jokes, surprise cameos by other
drummers and a couple of poodles.

It started with the group’s lead singer, Dave Grohl, and other members of the
band standing around with their instruments in a darkened studio, bantering
about whether any of them ever punched someone onstage.

Suddenly there is a knock on the door. There are greetings of “hey!” as Chad
Smith, of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, enters. He gestures with his drumsticks.
“There’s a white Mercedes blocking me,” he says, and then leaves.

Then Mötley Crüe’s drummer, Tommy Lee, bursts in, carrying bags of P.F.
Chang’s Chinese takeout. Cheers all around. “Put it in the kitchen for us,”
Grohl says.

Danny Carey, from Tool, is the next to come through the door, twirling his
drumsticks in one hand and in the other, clutching a leash tethering a pair
of
large poodles that he says he has just groomed. He then leaves.

This, apparently, was a buildup to the appearance of Freese. The poodles are
part of his family, according to his Instagram posts. He has also posted
about
his excitement over P.F. Chang’s.

A frustrated voice suddenly calls out from the darkness, from someone who had
seemingly had enough of the intrusions: “Excuse me!”

The camera swings in his direction. It was Freese, seated behind an array of
drums. “Guys could we just like, I don’t know, play a song? Or two?
Something?”

The successive appearances of one top rock drummer followed by another were a
way to tease the big news after, as Variety reported, the band went to “great
lengths” not to reveal the identity of its new drummer.

Freese is a veteran drummer who has performed with the Offspring, Sting,
Weezer, Nine Inch Nails and others.

The Foo Fighters were devastated after Hawkins died in a hotel in northern
Bogotá, in Colombia, where the band had been scheduled to play. A beloved
member of the group, Hawkins joined the band for its “There Is Nothing Left
to
Lose” album, which was released in 1999, and played on its next seven albums.

The streamed event on Sunday included “Rescued,” the band’s first new song
since Hawkins’s death, which appears to reflect their lingering grief.

Last September in London, Hawkins’s teenage son, Shane, performed “My Hero”
with the band in a tribute concert to his father. At that concert, Freese, on
drums, said he wanted to play on Hawkins’s set.

Christine Hauser is a reporter, covering national and foreign news. Her
previous jobs in the newsroom include stints in Business covering financial
markets and on the Metro desk in the police bureau. @ChristineNYT

Give this article



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/22/arts/music/foo-fighters-drummer-freese-hawkins.html

LICENSE: © 2023 The New York Times Company

=========================================


$
[B:t] Foo Fighters Introduce Josh Freese as Their New Drummer - The New York Times
