
[1] Read Details

Easter Egg

In the world of HBO’s Succession, money is everything — but one dollar amount
cited in the show’s penultimate episode has a deeper meaning

By Miles Klee

Contact Miles Klee by Email

May 23, 2023

Barely a scene passes in the rarefied world of Succession without mention of
money, the dollar amounts typically quite large. Connor Roy torches $100
million in his deluded presidential campaign. The other Roy siblings outmatch
their father, Logan, in a bidding war for Pierce Global Media by offering $10
billion. (“Congratulations on saying the biggest number, you fucking morons,”
Logan rages at them afterward.) But it is a far smaller sum mentioned toward
the end of the HBO series’ second-to-last episode that packs the most
emotional punch: $5 million.

That’s how much Logan, now very much dead, paid for a giant mausoleum in
which he was entombed following a brutal sequence of funeral eulogies in
Season Four, Episode Nine, “Church and State.” Among the Roy offspring, only
Connor had previously known about the forbidding structure, and its price.
Shiv is amused to learn that Logan bought it from an online pet supply mogul
who built it, per Connor’s recollection — a cheeky reference to the bursting
of the dot-com bubble in 2000 — while Kendall, who initially recoiled at his
father’s final resting place, is impressed at the value of the real estate.
“$5 mil?” he asks, nodding to himself at Logan’s investment, “Good deal.”
Connor and Shiv agree.

It’s a small, funny moment that comes in the aftermath of an unbearably
fraught public ceremony, and Shiv can’t resist riffing a little more: “Is it
also a tax write-off because it’s technically a residence?” she wonders. But
the mention of that $5 million, a pittance to a billionaire like Logan, is a
poignant echo of a joke in Season Two, back when he was seemingly immortal.
In
the pertinent episode, “DC,” Cousin Greg is pondering the risks and benefits
of allying with his great-uncle Logan over his morally strident grandfather
Ewan Roy, who has threatened to deny Greg a promised inheritance of $250
million if he continues to work as a lackey of Waystar Royco’s corrupt
executives.

===== Editor’s picks =====

The 50 Worst Decisions in Music History

The 200 Greatest Singers of All Time

The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time

The 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time

Greg makes the calculation to side with Logan, hoping for an even greater
fortune in the long run, and explains his reasoning to Connor and his mentor,
Tom: “I’m good, anyway,” he says, because apparently Ewan will “leave me five
million anyway, so, I’m golden, baby.” Connor is quick to disabuse him of
such
confidence: “You can’t do anything with five, Greg. Five’s a nightmare,” he
says. “Can’t retire, not worth it to work. Oh yes, five will drive you un
poco
loco.” Tom chimes in to add, “Poorest rich person in America. The world’s
tallest dwarf.”

When this scene aired, it read like an idle gag at the expense of low-status
Greg, though one that gave us a glimpse into the wealth-poisoned mindset
shared by the Roy circle, where literal millions are considered more of a
burden than a bonus. Greg, not used to the financial logic of the 0.01
Percent, can only stammer as his brief satisfaction evaporates into instant
regret. Of course, were he not falling under the influence of his
aristocratic
relatives, he might reasonably counter that $5 million can be readily used to
generate more, and with it a comfortable standard of living. Yet it’s too
late: he’s been infected by the peculiar greed that comes with material
abundance. The actual lesson he’s learning is that no amount of money — that
meaningless paper — will ever be enough.

If the $5 million Logan spent on his cemetery memorial is a screenwriting
coincidence, it’s a resonant one. After all, this is the triumphalist
counterweight to the devastating speech that Ewan Roy gave at his funeral,
reminding those assembled of his cruel legacy as a shaper of world events and
divider of people. That it should be Greg’s rejected grandfather, the
family’s
unsparing conscience, to deliver that blow — and Connor, the snobbish
ne’er-do-well who laughed off the advantages of $5 million, to inform us that
Logan sensibly purchased a mausoleum at that cost — seems too apropos.

And, in a sick way, perhaps Connor was proven right. The Roy siblings’
sarcastic commentary on the grandiose tomb calls to mind the familiar adage:
“You can’t take it with you.” Having his remains installed in a marble
temple,
Logan insisted on his importance in life by expressing his affluence one last
time. Capital can only ever be proof of itself, and is therefore as hollow as
the dark space within these cold walls. Whoever comes out on top in the
series
finale may confront that same bleak epiphany, assuming Logan’s nihilism along
with his empire.

===== Trending =====

Noel Gallagher Once Again Slams the 1975: 'This Is F-cking Sh-t'

Meet the Folks Lining Up for Elon Musk's Brain Implant

On ‘Bangerz,’ Miley Cyrus Shook Culture and Ass. It Took a While to Shake Off
the Shame

Great, Now I Have to Side With the Brands for Pride Month

So, yes, $5 million is a nightmare. You can’t do anything with $5 million, or
$100 million, or $10 billion, except think about doubling it again, and
meanwhile buy an expensive box to decompose in after you drop dead on a
private jet. It’s a monument to the Roy family’s futile and consuming
ambition: they have everything, just not the ability to enjoy it.

In this article: Brian Cox, Death, funeral, HBO, james cromwell, Jeremy
Strong, Kieran Culkin, Logan Roy, Matthew Macfadyen, Nicholas Braun, Sarah
Snook, Succession

TV & Movies TV & Movies Recaps

More News



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-recaps/succession-season-4-episode-9-logan-roy-funeral-callback-missed-five-million-dollars-hbo-cousin-greg-mausoleum-1234740003/

LICENSE: © 2023 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] That ‘Succession’ Funeral Episode Had a Killer Callback You Missed – Rolling Stone
