
[1] Read Details

NASCAR is investigating the incident, which occurred at the North Wilkesboro
Speedway over the weekend

By Jon Blistein

May 22, 2023

Over the weekend, the team radio channel for, Bubba Wallace, the only Black
driver in NASCAR’s top racing series, was apparently hijacked by someone who
took the opportunity to tell Wallace he’s “not wanted in NASCAR.”

As Motorsport.com reports, the incident occurred during the race Sunday, May
21, at the North Wilkesboro Speedway in North Carolina. Someone was
apparently
able to tap into the radio channel Wallace uses to communicate with his team,
and could be heard saying, “Go back to where you came from asshole. You’re
not
wanted in NASCAR.”

NASCAR and its security operation are reportedly investigating who may have
hacked the channel and how. According to someone at Wallace’s racing team,
23XI Racing, the driver neither heard nor acknowledged the comments during
the
race. (NASCAR and 23XI did not immediately return Rolling Stone’s requests
for
comment.)

As of publication, Wallace hadn’t commented publicly on the incident. He did
share a video after the race, expressing disappointment at finishing second
in
the winner-takes-all All Star Race. “All in all, proud of the effort,”
Wallace
said, adding: “It just wasn’t meant to be. Five [winning driver Kyle Larson]
was lights out, and we were the best of the rest, so I guess we can be proud
about that.”

As NASCAR’s only Black driver, Wallace has been unafraid to take up an
activist mantle in recent years. In 2020, after the murder of George Floyd
and
the uprising against racial injustice and police brutality, Wallace wore an
“I
Can’t Breathe” shirt and put a #BlackLivesMatter sticker on his car. He also
helped spearhead a successful campaign to ban the Confederate flag from all
NASCAR events.

“I still don’t see it as being political,” Wallace told Rolling Stone in a
2020 interview. “I just see it as basically right versus wrong.”

===== Trending =====

Noel Gallagher Once Again Slams the 1975: 'This Is F-cking Sh-t'

Meet the Folks Lining Up for Elon Musk's Brain Implant

On ‘Bangerz,’ Miley Cyrus Shook Culture and Ass. It Took a While to Shake Off
the Shame

‘F-ck Ron DeSantis’: Florida Rep. Maxwell Frost Shouts at Paramore Concert

Also in 2020, a member of Wallace’s racing team discovered what they believed
was a noose hanging from his garage at the Talladega Superspeedway in
Alabama.
An FBI investigation ultimately found no evidence of a hate crime, saying the
noose was actually a pull-down rope for a garage door that had been hung in
2019. It was also noted that while 11 other garage doors were outfitted with
pull ropes, only the one in Wallace’s garage was tied with a hangman’s knot.

This story was corrected 5/22/23 @ 5:50 p.m. ET to reflect that Bubba Wallace
is the only Black driver in NASCAR’s top Cup Series.

In this article: Bubba Wallace, NASCAR

More News



  ------------- SOURCE ----------------

URL:
ihttps://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-news/nascar-investigation-bubba-wallace-radio-hack-1234739603/

LICENSE: © 2023 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved.

=========================================


$
[B:t] NASCAR Investigating Alleged Hack of Bubba Wallace’s Radio During Race – Rolling Stone
